L6 AUDIO CALLBACK COMPLETION: COMPILED OFFLINE PROTOTYPE
4 October 2026

Result
The control coordinator now supports a non-reused audio completion epoch after
control drain. A request pins control closure until an entire subsequent audio
callback has returned. All four recovered callbacks execute their original
instructions in these tests, including the normal callback's later DSP stages
and secondary dispatcher. The extra-capture manager and the default playback
fence are unchanged; automatic pad publication is not enabled by this result.

14 new test groups pass. The relevant combined regression inventory is in
audio_completion_regression.json: 245 groups across 15 suites. Test counts are
coverage bookkeeping, not hardware-readiness measures. The stock L6.BIN remains
unchanged. No device or SD card was accessed.

Implementation
src/overdub/audio_completion.c implements begin/end on the audio side.
control_coordinator.c implements request/poll and prevents ordinary oc_reopen
from bypassing a pending audio request. The coordinator grows from 340 to 372
bytes, appending state after the existing 16 job slots. It is zeroed once before
participants start and remains permanently allocated. Existing control-only
users may still reopen without requesting audio; this optional barrier must be
explicitly used by the future combined protocol.

oc_audio_request requires the matching closed epoch and no running command.
Queued commands remain parked and are not confused with running work. The
request remains pending until acknowledged, with no timeout release or cancel.
A duplicate request returns BUSY without replacing state. Closure epochs and
callback tokens never wrap or reuse.

oc_audio_begin records the actual loaded branch target and current secondary
slot, snapshots the requested epoch and returns a unique callback token. The
recognized primary Thumb pointers are 2022a791, 80010961, 800124d9 and 800133e9;
the recognized secondary pointer is 2022a789. Null dispatch is skipped by the
adapter and provides no completion. Unknown targets, exhausted tokens and
nested entry latch a fault.

oc_audio_end checks a matching token and the current primary/secondary slots.
Only a full callback that began after the request can acknowledge that epoch.
A request arriving during a block waits for the next whole block. A missing
return leaves BUSY; wrong/duplicate returns or changed selectors latch FAULT,
including when an earlier block already acknowledged. Poll and reopen check
that fault; no public fault reset is supplied.

Audio never acquires or waits for the control metadata lock. One serialized
audio producer owns its invocation fields; request, acknowledgement and fault
cross the control/audio boundary through acquire/release atomics. This is a
specific concurrency contract, not proof of actual RTOS/interrupt topology.

What the emulator executes
verify_audio_completion.py supplies entry at original BLX r0 (8001078c) and
return at common continuation 8001078e. At each proposed hook, a separate ARM
emulator runs the compiled coordinator operation. Python explicitly schedules
these operations. The stock audio CPU executes the complete selected callback,
with synthetic input/routing memory and an idle effects processor. No DSP stage
or math helper is replaced, but outer output continuation 80010150 is not run.
ARM MAX is used for the previously documented double-precision instruction
coverage; that is not identification of the device's silicon.

This stage does NOT install a branch trampoline or verify register/FP/flags
preservation, task preemption, cache coherency, DMA, placement or timing. The
loaded-target race test changes the selector after original dispatch selection:
the old callback runs and the compiled completion protocol rejects its return.
An endpoint check cannot detect a transient selector change that is restored
before return. Preventing such changes depends on complete upstream control
admission, which is not yet installed or exhaustive.

Evidence and limits
Tests cover four real callback paths; mid-block request; absent/null audio;
primary and secondary changes; unknown targets; nested, wrong and duplicate
returns; missing return; request blocked by an actual pending original control
handler; deferred commands remaining parked after acknowledgement; stale and
duplicate epochs; audio progress while the control metadata lock is occupied;
callback token exhaustion; and a negative pad-reader control.

The negative control matters: a looping pad continues reading samples after a
successful acknowledgement. This protocol proves a past completion boundary.
It does not suspend later audio, clear active pads, block retriggers, drain
stream workers, establish card/recorder exclusion, or authorize buffer reuse.
Current acknowledge success must never be substituted for playback_session's
still-unbound all-reader fence.

Next integration
Join this completion request to playback-session closure and stream-child
ownership. Close start/retrigger and scan admission, retire the target playback
state through verified boundaries, wait for a subsequent full callback, and
keep those exclusions in force through buffer/file replacement. Preserve other
pads and continuing audio. Card and ordinary-recorder ownership must also join
before real publication. Do not reopen controls simply because audio poll says
OK: the external combined protocol must first establish readiness.

Original UI/task dispatch deferral and complete mode/import admission, installed
hook preservation, safe memory placement and device recovery remain unresolved.

Reproduce
  /tmp/l6-re-tools/bin/python tools/firmware/build_overdub_prototype.py
  /tmp/l6-re-tools/bin/python tests/emulation/verify_audio_completion.py

Subsequent integration
playback_shutdown_findings.txt documents the next stage: a persistent playback
hold, stream-disable adapter, audio epoch and file-worker ownership join, followed
by retained exclusive access. The callback acknowledgement remains a past barrier
on its own. The combined test adapter supplies additional admission guarantees;
real card/recorder ingress and publication wiring remain unfinished.
