Capture lifecycle with native file creation and SD instructions
6 October 2026

Result
------
The unchanged normal capture-only ELF now completes a take through original
OPEN/create, WRITE, SEEK, CLOSE, reopen, INFO and READ instructions. Its worker,
manager, lifecycle, public file wrappers, FAT allocator and cached directory
metadata execute on one emulator CPU. A second configuration also executes the
original SD dispatcher, commands, bounce copies and IRQ/event instructions,
with the existing separate test-only completion probe.

Both configurations produce the same 13,312-byte private TMP: a 512-byte WAV
header and 1,600 exact stereo float32 frames. Native readback includes three
4-KiB payload chunks and a 512-byte tail. Independent inspection of the modeled
card's persisted FAT/directory/payload sectors agrees with that verification.
The original WAV parser accepts the file and reports the exact frame count.
All seven ordinary recording outputs remain byte-identical to the disabled
capture baseline in the existing integration harness. Those ordinary files
still use its bytearray backend; this is not seven real FAT files or a device
recording test. Selected original audio/producer/finalizer instructions run.

Native creation and startup dependencies
---------------------------------------
The public OPEN at 0x8005ffe8 selects a native handle from the 100-slot pool
at 0x801f9270, stride 0x2c4. The file table at 0x800a0b28 invokes OPEN
0x800604e8, SEEK 0x8005f350 and INFO 0x8005f0a0. Native OPEN creates/checks
long names through 0x800676a0 / 0x80063368 / 0x8006bd30. Its exclusive flags
0x501 reject an existing file with 0xffffd75b and clear the output handle.
Read-only missing-file lookup returns 0xffffd75a, as required by life_prepare.
No Python filename lookup, logical extra-file handle or byte-level router is
used to provide these outcomes.

The fixtures contain an already-mounted small FAT32 volume, root cluster 2,
SOUND_PAD cluster 3 and PAD1..4 clusters 4..7. The root has a valid long name
and short alias. The firmware traverses these entries and writes its own new
LFN/SFN entries. Filename scratch must first be initialized by original
0x80074d08. Omitting it causes native LFN parsing to write through a null
pointer. Its immutable locale tables already reside in the loaded MAIN bytes.
This is an additional startup prerequisite, not a new production initializer.

SEEK crosses a real FAT cluster boundary in the fixture. INFO returns native
length, position and cluster slack. INFO constructs a filesystem exception
context but takes no filesystem tokens; its driver only copies handle fields.
It must not be treated as storage completion evidence or a durability check.

Collision and failure handling
------------------------------
Native creation is tested in all four pad folders. Pool exhaustion fails before
a file driver or sector operation. Existing WAV and abandoned TMP collisions
advance the compiled naming search without changing those files. After 32
colliding candidates the private-file profile yields MORE, then searches the
next batch; it does not permanently fail just because one batch was full.
Two observed life_prepare calls issue 64 then two native OPENs and create
serial 33, preserving all 32 prior files.

Injected lookup errors and a controlled zero free count disable optional
capture while ordinary recording continues. Failures while closing either FAT
copy, directory metadata or the final barrier leave the manager BLOCKED, no
eligible result and no close retry, even though the stock handle is already FF.
A native readback error or independently changed payload sector also withholds
the result. These sector outcomes are modeled, not measured card faults.

Retained call lifetime
----------------------
A failed native OPEN lookup retains all five filesystem tokens, SD unit token,
exception frame and compiled worker/lifecycle stack until an explicit MODEL
join. Repeated resume attempts preserve the same frame and sector request.

Failed payload I/O and nominal I/O held at the final completion checkpoint
likewise retain the full capture call. Ordinary audio and STOP are scheduled on
a separate fixture stack while the worker remains suspended. Their outputs
stay exact, the pending frame remains unchanged and no extra transfer is
resubmitted. After MODEL permission, that same native request resumes; the
failed take remains ineligible and the successful take completes verification.
Late modeled controller activity in the nominal case is supplied only after
native bounce/status completion, so it cannot turn the intended nominal test
into an earlier native busy/status timeout.

The shared Main-service observer now distinguishes the task owning the retained
filesystem context from a separately scheduled ordinary caller. Calls by the
file-owning task are still rejected as a Main dependency. Permitting an unrelated
ordinary service is a scheduling fixture, not evidence about real preemption
or all filesystem/UI callers.

Remaining work
--------------
Mounted geometry, ready-volume flags, cache lists, allocator free count and
initial directory bytes are controlled inputs. Normal BPB mount, bitmap and
FSInfo initialization remain to be connected and tested. The small fixture
does not cover directory growth, every filesystem mode or long song capacity.

DMA bytes, IRQ timing, source exclusion, CPU cache effects, kernel scheduling
and physical completion permissions are explicit models. No production join
detector or storage gate has been bound. Automatic startup release stays
disabled; outer card/USB admission, device RAM ownership and measured scheduling
remain necessary before an eventual capture-only device trial. Hardware testing
is deferred. No firmware image, transfer or device change occurred.

Verification
------------
python tools/firmware/audit_native_filesystem.py
python tests/emulation/verify_capture_native_files.py
python tools/firmware/verify_redesign.py

New suite: 13 groups. Updated bounded inventory: 32 targets, 164 direct
references, four SD callback records. Reports:
  analysis/capture_native_files_verification.json
  analysis/native_filesystem_inventory.json
  analysis/redesign_verification.json
Full redesign regression: 512 groups across 48 suites pass. Normal/startup
packed margins remain 302/155 bytes; no production C code changed.

Follow-up: native_mount_findings.txt replaces the manually mounted volume/cache
and allocator settings with original filesystem construction, MBR/BPB parsing
and bitmap/free-count scanning. Both capture configurations complete the same
exact take. The examined FAT32 paths do not access FSInfo. Initial card/folder
bytes and initialized SD-card state remain controlled; physical completion and
storage authorization are still unbound. The current inventory is 43 targets
and 218 direct references, with 524 groups across 49 suites passing. This note's
13-group/512-total account records the preceding milestone.
