CAPTURE LOADING INSIDE THE ORIGINAL MAIN LENGTH — 5 OCTOBER 2026

Result

The current capture-only code fits inside the existing loaded MAIN payload when
both the original DSP source and the new code are compressed in the format
already decoded by stock startup. Original entry/scatter/decompression/zero
instructions load the candidate code and initialize its globals in the emulator.
Capture then produces the exact expected extra TMP and seven unchanged ordinary
files. No larger MAIN length or newly installed decompressor is needed for this
offline proposal. This is a possible loading route, not a deployed result.

The fit is narrow: 302 source bytes remain. Recompute it after every build. The
plan refuses a build whose packed streams exceed the original source span.
Physical placement, cache/interrupt behavior, manager/worker registration,
storage admission and native I/O joins remain unverified. No container, checksum,
installable firmware, transfer or device access is produced by these tools.

Reproduction

  /tmp/l6-re-tools/bin/python tools/firmware/build_extra_capture.py --layout placement
  /tmp/l6-re-tools/bin/python tools/firmware/plan_capture_packing.py
  /tmp/l6-re-tools/bin/python tools/firmware/audit_capture_packing.py
  /tmp/l6-re-tools/bin/python tests/emulation/verify_capture_packing.py
  /tmp/l6-re-tools/bin/python tools/firmware/verify_redesign.py

Reports live under ignored analysis/. Packing/audit tools write JSON only. Test
edits affect emulator memory, never the vendor file. The plan pins the firmware
hash and current placement ELF hash. Public sources contain the independently
written host encoder and tests, not packed vendor DSP bytes.

Source layout and budget

The original DSP source occupies [0x800a9408,0x800b6ae4), 55,004 bytes, ending
exactly at the stock MAIN effective load end. Its destination remains
[0x20220000,0x2022d6dc). Only the two prior audio jump spans change its output.

Packed DSP:     36,172 bytes at 0x800a9408.
Packed capture: 18,530 bytes at 0x800b2154.
Packed end:     0x800b69b6.
Spare:            302 bytes before 0x800b6ae4.

Capture expands to [0x800b6b00,0x800bc424), 22,820 bytes. That destination lies
beyond the original loader length; the application initializer writes it from
compressed bytes wholly inside the existing loaded source. Its availability
therefore depends on ordinary RAM writes, not the bootloader copying a longer
MAIN section. Physical ownership of that destination still needs approval.

The default placement experiment continues to cover direct ELF loading and the
original copier. This separate packing experiment covers the original decoder
and a changed application scatter table. Neither is enabled on the mixer.

Startup table and ordering

Original table: [0x800a68dc,0x800a695c), eight 16-byte records.
Zero padding:  [0x800a695c,0x800a6980), 36 bytes.
Candidate end: 0x800a697c, ten records, leaving four padding bytes.

The end literal at 0x80001990 changes from 0x800a695c to 0x800a697c. A 96-byte
table tail beginning at 0x800a691c contains the two added records and the four
original tail records. All eight original destinations and lengths survive:

  first four original initialized regions, unchanged and in original order;
  zero [0x80960080,0x809600dc), 92 permanent capture-global bytes;
  expand capture code through stock 0x80001994;
  expand patched DSP through stock 0x80001994, replacing its copy helper;
  last three original zero regions, unchanged and in original order.

Added code and zeroed globals precede publication of patched DSP instructions.
No bootstrap function or replacement decoder is introduced. Manager/worker
arenas are not initialized by this table; their startup registration is still
unbound. This ordering does not prove inherited interrupts are excluded, RAM
code is coherent with caches, or other startup users cannot access the spans.

Encoder and independent checks

scatter_codec.py models the original decoder at 0x80001994. Each token combines
up to 254 literals with zeros or a copy from up to 255 bytes behind the output.
Copies may overlap and produce up to 257 bytes. The host encoder minimizes
encoded bytes with suffix costs. It is an offline packing utility; the device
would continue using its original Thumb decoder.

146 small deterministic streams test literal-length transitions, zero-run
transitions, distance limits, two-byte and overlapping copies, random bytes and
all binary strings of lengths 1..6. The original Thumb decoder, not just the host
model, must reproduce each input. Read/write observations check exact consumed
source length, destination size and untouched guards. The complete real DSP
and capture blocks receive the same independent native-decoder checks.

The host model rejects malformed/truncated streams, literal-counter underflow,
tokens without progress, invalid copy distances and destination overruns. The
original decoder does not acquire these checks; only verified generated streams
are supplied to it. No malformed stream is proposed for a device trial.

Original entry and complete scatter execution

The boot test starts at 0x80001400 with only stock-length MAIN bytes loaded.
Destinations and added globals start poisoned. The original entry sets SP,
original 0x80001964 walks the candidate table, and all original copy/decompress/
zero loops execute without interception. The test stops at Main 0x80067a60,
before board/cache/task setup. It checks every original destination byte, the
complete new code output, exactly zeroed globals and boundary guards.

Seven original outputs match stock byte-for-byte; DSP matches the specified
two-hook version byte-for-byte. No original zero range is shortened to make
space. The test executes ten helper calls and reaches Main with the same SP as
the baseline. It is not a complete boot or a simulation of physical cache, MPU,
interrupts, RAM aliases, RTOS scheduling or elapsed hardware time.

The recording fixture reads ELF metadata, poisons code/global destinations and
loads executable bytes solely through the original decoder before the first
added-code call. Its actual RAM jump bytes execute without PC interception at
the tap/commit sites. Optional task-creation failure and short extra write leave
the ordinary files unchanged and withhold the extra result.

Bounded reference audit

The audit attempts 358,907 halfword decodes in the MAIN prefix and original
copied DSP. It also searches every byte offset for pointer values in loaded MAIN
and all five copied/decompressed initialized regions. Zero regions add no
nonzero pointers. It checks direct immediates, PC-relative memory and MOVW/MOVT
pairs within 32 bytes, retaining pairs even across clobbers.

Sixteen raw candidates are retained: the original table-end literal, two source
fields (one used by copy, one ignored by the zero helper), and thirteen values
overlapping inspected instructions. Ten decoded candidates are retained: eight
begin at the second halfword of inspected instructions, and two decode stored
data pointer words as branches. No bounded MOVW/MOVT pair resolves into the
reused intervals, and no candidate remains unexplained in this scan.

This does not prove that instruction bytes cannot be read as data, that a wider
derived pointer cannot reach the source, or that bootloader/DMA/interrupt paths
have no consumer. The report preserves the candidates and contexts instead of
treating a scan's negative result as allocation approval.

Verification and next work

Eight packing groups pass. The consolidated runner passes 431 groups across
41 suites, including the prior seven direct-placement groups. Default profiles
and APIs remain unchanged; test ELF loading now has an override for this fixture.

Complete physical code/RAM ownership and initialization of manager/worker state,
then bind startup registration while preserving stock failure handling. Storage
authorization and native I/O completion must be established before release and
before any error path can reuse buffers. Remaining audio/control hook encodings
and measured stack/timing/SD behavior are still prerequisites to a device image.
Keep the packed size gate; future growth may require a different code-loading
budget. Hardware testing remains deferred.
