WORKER-PREPARED LARGE CAPTURE RINGS
4 October 2026

Implemented
The session handover can now use 2..4096 power-of-two sample slots. Previously
the session manager, control transport and bridge capped it at 32, because the
audio-boundary initializer also cleared every slot. Simply raising that limit
would have moved thousands of additional writes into a time-critical callback.

exchange_prepare now validates the count, slot alignment and address overflow,
then clears slot states on the worker before pending_bridge is published.
The worker must own quiescent storage under the existing shutdown contract.
Preparation leaves capture faulted until activation; it does not publish audio.

exchange_begin consumes the preparation at the audio boundary, validates the
current stock observation and initializes only fixed-size Exchange state. It
does not walk or clear the slot array. Invalid observation consumes preparation
and leaves capture faulted. A second begin without preparation is rejected.
exchange_init remains an initialization-only wrapper for existing fixtures.

All three handover layers share EXCHANGE_MAX_SLOTS=4096. The manager retains
its existing bounded RESET clearing: at most 4096 bytes per reset step. Staging
does a further worker-only pass over slot state words (at most 4096 stores).
This pass is not in an audio callback; its real worker latency remains unmeasured.

No physical addresses are selected by these APIs. This change does not establish
the candidate SDRAM gap's ownership, create a native worker or install hooks.

Capacity and budget
4096 slots * 64 frames = 262144 stereo frames, about 5.46 seconds at 48 kHz.
Each Slot is 528 bytes including state and timestamp: total 2,162,688 bytes.
This is the owned sample ring used by the current bridge. It is not an additional
allocation alongside the earlier separate serialized History prototype.

Current compiled object sizes, bytes:
  Transport             1712
  Router                  20
  Bridge                 248
  Exchange                64
  Life                  5164
  Capture              66080 (includes the separate writer queue)
  SessionManager        2208
  Slot array         2162688
  subtotal           2238184

The 2,462,600-byte candidate interval exceeds that subtotal by 224,416 bytes.
Code, stacks, alignment, pad-publication objects and other integration state
are not included. These figures establish an arithmetic fit only; allocator,
DMA, indirect-pointer, cache and physical-memory questions remain open.

Verification
Build: python tools/firmware/build_extra_capture.py
Run: python tests/emulation/verify_large_capture_handover.py
Report: analysis/large_capture_handover_verification.json

Five passing groups cover:
- 2, 32 and 4096 slots: begin executes 50 instructions in each case and writes
  no slot memory. Preparation clears state only; a second begin is rejected.
- A compiled manager uses the 4096-slot ring across two exact-payload takes,
  preserves both WAVs and retains the correct result order.
- The large slot array is reset in 528 steps of 4096 bytes. After worker staging,
  the first complete audio callback writes only the first slot, not the others.
- Cancellation during the large reset does not publish partial storage; explicit
  resume completes preparation and records another take.
- Invalid counts, misalignment, pointer overflow and unsupported callback mode
  are rejected without writing out-of-range slot storage.

Affected regression suites also pass: block exchange (8 groups), session
handover (11), session manager (12), transport shutdown (5), and publication
workflow (17). These use synthetic RAM, DSP, filesystem and scheduling. Counts
are executed emulator instructions, not hardware timing. Capacity is not a
guarantee against SD stalls or a proof of continuous full-song performance.

Hardware work remains deferred at the user's request. Trial 3 is still local,
not transferred or installed. Next development work can address cold-start
initialization and binding the manager to a native worker, while physical
placement remains an explicit unresolved integration requirement.
