COMPILED FIRST-SESSION STARTUP
4 October 2026

Implemented
manager_boot now admits a fresh optional-capture runtime without host-side
bridge_bind, rr_init, ct_init or an already prepared first file. It uses the
existing reset/preparation/handover state machine to bring the first session up.
This is startup of the added capture subsystem, not emulation of an entire L6
boot and not yet a native worker or installed firmware patch.

Contract and sequence
- One initialization caller before hooks or other callers can enter. The caller
  supplies a zeroed Manager, valid exclusively owned object/slot spans, an
  existing control queue, a nonzero first session and nonzero file serial.
  Descriptor storage must be readable; the API is not a memory-permission probe.
- Reject invalid/overlapping/wrapping spans, misaligned slots, invalid capacity,
  a dirty Manager, invalid pad/serial and an already owned manager runtime.
- ct_boot_close checks virgin transport state; bridge_boot_close checks virgin
  bridge state. Close both gateways, enable strict audio mode and permit initial
  staging. No task creation, allocation or file IO occurs in this entry call.
- Initialize the Manager at RESET just before the requested session/serial.
  Its normal worker steps advance those values and clear the seven owned arenas
  in chunks of at most 4096 bytes, then prepare a unique WAV and its slot states.
- Release-publish the staged bridge only after preparation. Audio adopts at a
  complete callback boundary. Control activation still requires a successful
  first block and no outstanding audio invocation or gateway reservations.
- Consume the cold-start staging permission at first successful control
  activation. Further takes require the existing retirement/handover protocol.

Cancelling or failing before first activation must retain permission to stage a
clean retry: there is no previous detached Transport on first boot. The new
bootstrap_pending state handles this without inventing a detached pointer or
reopening gateways prematurely. It does not override resource uncertainty.

Failure behavior
Duplicate boot cannot reset a pending/live manager. Cancellation while clearing
or while waiting for first audio can retire without another audio callback.
File-creation failure and failed first audio remain closed until explicit resume.
An uncertain file close leaves M_BLOCKED; resume cannot reclaim the storage.

Verification
Build: python tools/firmware/build_extra_capture.py
Run: python tests/emulation/verify_manager_boot.py
Report: analysis/manager_boot_verification.json

Seven groups pass, covering first startup with 4096 slots and two exact-payload
takes, malformed descriptors, duplicate entry, cancellation/resume, file-create
failure, first-audio failure, and uncertain close. For the closed-start check,
the optional arenas are made inaccessible: ordinary modeled audio and an
original STOP request/dispatch execute without accessing them or doing file IO.

The fixture reuses existing modeled hardware/queue/file plumbing, disposes of
its setup-only session, then restores the optional ELF's writable startup state.
It poisons the object arenas and leaves the Manager zero. Thereafter the compiled
boot/reset/handover code performs initialization. No host-side optional session
binding is used after that reset. Synthetic DSP, owned RAM, synchronous file
operations, task identities and queue delivery remain fixtures.

During development, a global Unicorn memory-read observer interfered with an
existing intercepted kernel call (execution continued inside the original body).
The final test uses inaccessible memory pages instead, as other lifetime suites
do. This avoids relying on that observer for the no-access assertion.

Native worker boundary: identified, not wired
Stock main at 0x80067a60 calls the task/queue initializer 0x80048248 from
0x80067a80, then 0x800745b8 from 0x80067a84. The latter creates an idle task and
enters 0x80076158. The interval after normal task/queue setup is a candidate
for adding worker registration and manager_boot. It is NOT yet an approved
hook: early interrupt/audio activity and initialization ownership must be traced.

Original task creation at 0x80076c60 takes entry/name/stack-word-count/argument
in r0..r3, with priority and output-handle pointer on the stack. Its observed
body shifts the stack count by two, allocates that stack plus a separate
0x94-byte task object through 0x8006de78, initializes both, and rejects priorities
of 32 or more. If task-object allocation fails it frees the allocated stack.
Those facts follow from the disassembly, not from a physical task-creation test.

Remaining native work:
1. Establish a startup point that satisfies exclusive initialization, using the
   original queue handle only after its successful creation.
2. Choose and verify worker priority, stack budget, wakeup/blocking policy and
   allocation-failure fallback. Do not reuse an arbitrary stock task priority.
3. Keep ordinary recording operational when optional startup fails; install
   only complete capture/control hook coverage and preserve publication fences.
4. Bind approved code and RAM placement, then measure hardware timing and IO.

No firmware was generated, transferred or installed for this change. Device
testing remains deferred. The prepared added-code marker trial is unchanged.

Follow-up: native_worker_findings.txt records the compiled task adapter added
after this milestone. It covers registration, timed polling and allocation-failure
handling offline; the startup hook and actual scheduling remain unverified.

Follow-up, 5 October 2026: RESET now clears only six control/staging objects.
exchange_prepare initializes slot ownership without clearing sample payloads.
Cold dirty-storage, reuse and cancellation checks still pass. See
capture_integration_findings.txt for the normal capture-only integration milestone.
