PUBLIC CLOSE GUARD AND FILESYSTEM LOCK ORDER
4 October 2026

Result
pf_close now reserves a handle before entering original PUBLIC close 0x8005c1f8.
An existing tracked read makes it wait outside the stock filesystem wrapper.
The close reservation blocks new pins until the complete public call returns,
then revokes tracked-read admission for associated pads. Only publication by a
guarded loader with consistent loaded/handle/open-file state restores admission.
No firmware hook is installed; this remains compiled emulator work.

Lock-order evidence
Public close calls 0x8001bf88 for filesystem synchronization at 0x8005c21e and
0x8005c236, then 0x8002b100 at 0x8005c240. Its driver dispatch is much later, at
0x8005c31a. Existing close instrumentation at lower close 0x8005c388 therefore
does not provide a pre-lock admission point.

Public read 0x80060620 also calls 0x8001bf88 before driver work, selecting one or
both filesystem synchronization domains from the handle's volume. The helper
0x8001bf88 selects synchronization handles from 0x801f8da0; 0x8002b100 similarly
selects a handle and calls the indefinite-wait wrapper 0x800328f0.

Waiting for a pinned reader inside a lower close can therefore invert the order:
close holds a filesystem resource and waits for the pin, while the file-worker
read needs that resource before it can finish and release the pin. The new
wrapper takes its logical reservation BEFORE executing any public-close code.
Its forwarder replays PUSH {r4-r10,lr} and resumes at 0x8005c1fc.

This removes that particular late-admission boundary; it does not prove all
callers arrive without other locks. Initial prefetch still holds the semaphore
at slot 0x80446868 across its callback/conversion (waits at 0x80036af6/0x80036b44,
signal at 0x80036b92). The full assignment, audio-stop, Main, filesystem and media
transition call chains still need a complete lock-order audit.

Close reservation and revocation
Eight bounded close records share the existing short metadata latch. Each has
handle, native owner, unique nonwrapping token and associated-pad mask. Private
pad_files state is now 220 bytes in the compiled ARM ELF. Exhausted slots return
BUSY; no heap allocation or timeout-based success is added.

Admission checks existing pins and pad mutations. A close invoked from its own
guarded loader/unloader can nest under that mutation; another owner's mutation
blocks admission. New pins and conflicting load/unload operations wait while a
close record is live. A matching close-end token retires only that close record,
never an outer mutation reservation. Wrong-owner and stale tokens are rejected.

Both successful and failed close attempts revoke associated pads, since a failed
close may have partially changed the file. Completion combines the admission-time
pad mask with current pad/active-mutation handle associations before releasing
the record. Thus an association published while a close is in flight cannot slip
through the release boundary. The original close result is returned unchanged.

A guarded loader clears only its own pad's revocation after the complete original
body returns and loaded state, both nonzero handle tables and file type 0x40 agree.
Unloading, manually ending a mutation, or restoring old handle words does not
clear revocation. Aliased pads remain revoked until each is explicitly reloaded.
This is not full open-generation or stale-caller ownership: arbitrary handle
reuse and lower-level bypasses are still outside the demonstrated protocol.

The wrapper retries admission/completion metadata without repeating an executed
close. Null handles keep stock behavior without a close reservation. Bound,
nonzero native task identity and thread context are required; invalid use retains
the existing fault/parking policy.

Verification
  python tools/firmware/build_overdub_prototype.py
  python tests/emulation/verify_pad_close.py
Report: analysis/pad_close_verification.json

Nine groups pass:
1. Public close nests within original guarded load/unload while all eight actual
   ingress reads complete and verified root retirement succeeds.
2. A pinned close reaches no stock filesystem-lock call; the original public
   read then runs before pin release, after which close executes exactly once.
3. A close error is returned unchanged and read admission stays revoked until
   fresh guarded loading.
4. Busy close completion retries metadata only, without a second stock close.
5. Close reservations exclude new pins/mutations and reject wrong/stale endings.
6. Nested close leaves outer mutation ownership and revocation intact.
7. Bounded slots and nonreused tokens reject old completion after slot reuse.
8. Direct close revokes all linked pads; reloading one does not revive its alias.
9. An association published during close is revoked before its reservation ends.

All 152 preceding groups pass: 161 groups across fifteen suites, not a complete
repository run. The original public read/close bodies execute in the focused
order test, but the effects of RTOS lock calls and filesystem drivers remain
fixtures. The test verifies ordering and continuation, not a real scheduler
deadlock or hardware timing. Other tests use the existing compiled-ingress rig.

Remaining work
Ordinary and periodic readers/seeks are not pinned. Public-close protection and
guarded loader publication must be enabled together, before traffic; lower close
calls that bypass this entry, raw stores, physical removal and card/USB teardown
remain uncovered. Public errors before lower-driver attribution also need an
explicit reload-error integration audit; preserving the return alone does not
prove every original caller checks it. The caller lock audit, fault isolation,
cold installation, memory placement and startup release remain incomplete.
No device/card access or firmware deployment occurred.
