TRACKED READ RESERVATIONS AGAINST PAD LOAD/UNLOAD
4 October 2026

Result
pad_file.c adds an optional per-pad reservation shared by tracked read producers
and wrappers around the original pad loader/unloader. A tracked read captures
and pins its handle before publication, then keeps that reservation through the
file-worker return and read-ticket join. Wrapped pad replacement waits before
entering the original body while a conflicting read remains pinned.

This is the first storage-lifetime boundary, not complete filesystem/card
ownership. Direct filesystem closes, raw handle-table stores, ordinary/periodic
read traffic, media removal and card/USB teardown are not covered by this guard.
All relevant mutation entry points must participate before deployment.

Native evidence
Unload 0x800096f8 first disables sampler state through 0x800368c0, obtains the
retained handle through 0x80036318, and calls public close 0x8005c1f8. It then
clears loaded state and retained handle, disables streaming and clears the
file-worker handle via 0x80036860. Guarding only the close would let earlier
state changes occur while a read was still live.

Loader 0x800092a0 accepts (pad,path), with a null path selecting the configured
path. It opens/parses/configures the sample and publishes sampler/file handles.
Its failure branches can clear assignment state and close the opened file.
The two wrappers therefore reserve the complete original load/unload operation.
Forwarders replay each function's original PUSH and resume at 0x800092a2 and
0x800096fa respectively. They do not recurse through the intercepted entries.

Reservation protocol
pf_bind installs a permanent coordinator and yield port once, before admission.
The guard occupies 88 bytes of private state: a short metadata latch, monotonic
token sequence, four mutation records and two producer read records. No metadata
latch spans file IO or yield. Logical reservations do span the complete operation.

pf_pin checks that the pad is loaded and that its retained handle at
0x807348d4 + 0x22c*pad matches the nonzero file-worker handle at
0x80735b24 + 20*pad. It atomically captures that handle and a fresh token while
excluding mutation of that pad. An active mutator's saved handles also exclude
new pins through another pad alias, even after it clears its public handle words.
Tokens never wrap. They identify reservations, not filesystem open generations.

Each requesting role has one pin slot. Two roles may pin the same pad; a mutation
waits for both. pf_change_begin excludes pins on the target pad or either of its
current handle aliases, then retains the calling native task ID and handle
snapshots until pf_change_end. Only the matching owner can end the mutation.
Busy admission changes no state; stale/duplicate pin releases do not clear a
new reservation. This does not validate historical alias state after reopening
a file, or serialize all possible direct filesystem operations.

Producer integration
rp_begin acquires the optional pin before publishing its immutable handle. The
synchronous callback yields and retries begin when mutation temporarily prevents
admission. It does not send until admission succeeds. Once rr_finish succeeds,
a separate RP_RELEASE phase drops the pin; contention retries only that release,
never the file IO or the already-completed read-ticket join. The producer state
is now 72 bytes per role (one additional lease token).

Missing delivery/completion retains the reservation. An observed IO failure can
release it after the reader has returned and joined, while final reload failure
remains recorded. A fault during tracking still parks and retains resources.
Legacy tests without pf_bind retain their earlier handle snapshot with token
zero; those configurations do not claim this added lifetime protection.

Verification
  python tools/firmware/build_overdub_prototype.py
  python tests/emulation/verify_pad_file.py
Report: analysis/pad_file_verification.json

Nine groups pass:
1. All eight reads through actual compact ingress pin/join/release, while the
   original wrapped loader/unloader paths complete normally.
2. An undelivered read keeps its pad pinned; another unrelated pad can mutate.
3. Two readers coexist; wrong/duplicate releases cannot remove other ownership.
4. A blocked native unload leaves sampler state, handle and close count unchanged.
   After release, its saved continuation closes exactly once and clears state.
   Reload obtains a fresh reservation token; the old token cannot release it.
5. A blocked native loader cannot open a file or overwrite pad state.
6. Mutation excludes new pins; mismatched native handle tables reject a snapshot.
7. Handle aliases cannot bypass an existing pin or active mutation snapshot.
8. Busy pin release retries only release, without repeating read-ticket joins.
9. Joined failed/short reads release pins while preserving reload failure.

All 143 preceding groups pass on the rebuilt ELF: 152 groups across fourteen
suites. This is not a full repository test run.

Limits and next work
The integrated test executes original load/unload and compiled read/guard code.
A focused native-unload test saves its suspended registers, releases a modeled
pin, then resumes the exact continuation. Metadata contention, scheduling, public
file effects, parsing and conversion remain fixtures. No device was accessed.

pf_bind plus both mutation wrappers must activate together under a verified cold
startup sequence; this is not yet wired. Ordinary reads are still unpinned, and
no complete media owner exists. A task waiting in a wrapper may already hold
stock resources needed by its counterpart, so a call-chain/lock-order audit is
required before these waits are safe to install. Permanent parking still needs
replacement with safe failure isolation. No patch, physical memory placement,
startup release, power-loss durability or recovery capability is established.

Follow-up: pad_close_findings.txt adds a public-close reservation before stock
filesystem locks and read-admission revocation until guarded loading. State is
now 220 bytes. Ordinary readers, lower close bypasses and media teardown remain
outside the demonstrated protection.
