SCOPED INITIAL-READ ROUTING
4 October 2026

Result
The compiled rp_read_entry/rp_dispatch pair now chooses tracked versus stock
reads using native task identity, reload-task state and the original callback
return address. The emulator redirects every stock read-callback entry through
this same dispatcher; its fixture no longer chooses the target implementation.
Nine new groups and all 126 preceding groups pass (135 across twelve suites).
No firmware patch has been written or installed.

Entry and stock forwarding
read_producer_hooks.S captures LR into the fourth argument before branching to
C. The first three arguments remain pad, buffer and byte count. This preserves
the original caller identity across the dispatcher's own function calls.

The ordinary path uses rp_stock_read, which replays the four original bytes at
0x80036208 (CMP r0,#3; BHI invalid-pad-return) and continues at 0x8003620c. It does
not reenter the intercepted callback entry. The original null-buffer and invalid
pad behavior is retained, as are the stock send and indefinite semaphore wait.
This is an emulator forwarder for v1.10, not evidence of branch reach, physical
placement, instruction-cache handling or an installed entry patch.

Route rules
Binding must already exist. Thread context, a nonzero current-task identity,
both native role handles, the file queue and the read semaphore must still
match the permanent binding. Invalid binding/context parks instead of forwarding.

For either bound reload task:
- A locked RT_RUNNING context with a valid matching-role envelope is tracked
  only at the two examined initial-prefetch returns: 0x80036b59 (BLX at
  0x80036b56) and 0x80036b0f (BLX at 0x80036b0c). These addresses include the
  Thumb bit. Other call origins within a live reload fault rather than silently
  creating untracked descendants.
- An unlocked RT_IDLE or RT_DONE context uses stock reads only if its producer
  has no locked or unfinished operation. Retained tags in a completed context
  do not accidentally enroll ordinary reads.
- Transitional phases, damaged live tags and retained reads cannot be treated
  as ordinary work merely because an active-context check fails.

Other native tasks keep the stock path, even while a reload is live elsewhere.
This preserves their behavior; it does not prove storage exclusion or track their
lifetime. Task-handle recycling is unsupported. The same permanent RtTask and
coordinator storage must ultimately be shared with the actual reload ingress.
That shared initialization/installation has not yet been wired.

Failure and admission limits
The existing fail-stop policy remains: latch the ownership fault and park the
caller. Thread callers yield; invalid interrupt-context entry uses WFE rather
than an RTOS yield in an interrupt. Neither case is production fault recovery.
Native binding changes can park ordinary callers too, and stock resources may
remain held. Fault isolation and safe unwinding remain deployment prerequisites.

This router assumes cold installation before traffic, permanent bindings and
the matching file-worker endpoint. It provides no live cutover handshake, queue
drain or task-recreation policy. Nor does ordinary forwarding reserve file/card
ownership, prevent close/reopen or establish startup readiness by itself.

Verification
  python tools/firmware/build_overdub_prototype.py
  python tests/emulation/verify_read_routing.py
Report: analysis/read_routing_verification.json

Nine groups pass:
1. Eight original initial-prefetch reads route by captured LR and native identity
   to tracked requests, with exact bytes reaching conversion.
2. The original carry-path BLX supplies its second accepted return address.
3. Both IDLE and DONE reload contexts use ordinary stock reads without tickets.
4. Another native task retains stock reads while reload scopes exist elsewhere.
5. Invalid lock/phase/tag combinations fault before sending or converting.
6. Changed task handles, file queue or semaphore fault before submission.
7. Unsupported origins inside a live reload cannot fall back to stock reads.
8. An outstanding producer operation prevents fallback after its parent is
   incorrectly marked idle.
9. The stock forwarder preserves invalid-pad/null-buffer early returns without
   sending, waiting or recursively entering the dispatcher.

Regression suites: callback 7, producer 7, worker 9, read queue 7, read evidence 8,
reload ownership 19, reload transport 14, compact transport 14, reload manager 19,
publication workflow 17 and prefetch 5. These total 126; with routing 9 the total
is 135. This is not a full repository test run.

The original normal prefetch, assignment and Main callers run through the
compiled dispatcher on one emulated CPU. The carry test executes its actual BLX
with fixture arguments and stops at the immediate continuation; it is not a
complete carry-buffer/DSP test. Enclosing reload scopes, task scheduling, queue
copying, semaphore outcomes, files and conversion remain fixtures. No real IRQ
schedule or invalid-interrupt parking behavior is tested. No device/card access,
physical installation, startup release or audio-output claim is made.

Next
Connect shared bindings to the actual reload ingress and establish file/card
ownership, including ordinary traffic and close/reopen boundaries. Resolve caller
and file-worker fault isolation before enabling startup release or deployment.

Follow-up: read_ingress_findings.txt records shared cold binding and combined
execution through compact ingress. Enclosing task phases/envelopes now come from
compiled rt_receive/rt_run in that suite. Installation and storage lifetime remain
unresolved.
