NATIVE READ PRODUCER BINDING AND EARLY WAKEUPS
4 October 2026

Result
read_producer.c binds the assignment task and Main to separate permanent read
contexts. It captures the active reload envelope, pad, buffer, byte count and
file handle before publication. A retained phase machine sends one tagged
request, waits once on the original semaphore, then joins that request's ticket.
An early or unrelated wakeup cannot itself establish read completion. Later
join attempts yield without another send or another semaphore wait.

This is compiled emulator code, not an installed firmware hook. The synchronous
calling glue must drive the phases and prevent stock prefetch from resuming
until the matching read is joined. Returning BUSY to an unmodified stock caller
would not provide that guarantee.

Binding and identity
rp_bind copies the 56-byte configuration once. Each role has a separate 68-byte
state. The caller supplies permanent coordinator, RtTask and RrRead storage,
distinct slot indices matching the file-worker table, and send/wait/yield ports.
Binding checks task handles at 0x80446dc8 (assignment) and 0x80446da4 (Main),
file queue 0x801f8f30 and read semaphore 0x804467fc.

Each producer entry checks thread context, current native handles and the stock
current-task getter at 0x800770e8. Its RtTask must be locked and RT_RUNNING with
the correct role and a valid owner/child envelope. The saved envelope must still
match on every step. Wrong callers, replaced task handles and changed tags cannot
replace or advance the retained request. The per-role reentry latch can span
that task's blocking send/wait; no shared ledger latch spans those calls.

Handle evidence
rp_begin snapshots the nonzero pad handle at 0x80735b24 + 20*pad. rr_begin_handle
stores it in the immutable ledger request before reservation/publication.
rw_read now compares this saved handle as well as the current pad handle, buffer
and count before public IO. The older rr_begin API leaves the handle unspecified
for existing fixtures. Native producer requests require the snapshot variant.

The snapshot detects handle substitution but is not full file/card ownership:
closing a file and reusing the same integer handle still requires a lifetime
fence. Queue cutover and admission of ordinary traffic also remain unresolved.

Completion and failure
Send return values alone do not prove delivery or non-delivery. The adapter
retains the raw value and never resends an uncertain request. Positive matching
worker completion can resolve an ambiguous send. Without delivery/completion,
the reservation stays pending; elapsed time does not convert it to success.

A native wait result other than 1 is recorded as reload error 0xffff0005 before
joining. Read errors and short reads are retained by the existing read tracker.
rp_step returning OK means the read has safely joined, not that all IO succeeded;
final reload verification still rejects these recorded errors. rp_result exposes
the original send/wait results and ticket after joining. This strict byte-count
policy covers initial prefetch reads; it does not redefine periodic EOF handling.

Verification
  python tools/firmware/build_overdub_prototype.py
  python tests/emulation/verify_read_producer.py
Report: analysis/read_producer_verification.json

Seven groups pass:
1. Early wakeup retries only the matching join, without repeated send/wait.
2. Both native producer roles use distinct contexts, including reversed delivery.
3. Wrong tasks/tags, duplicate begin and rebinding cannot replace live work.
4. Reservation/join contention preserves the request without duplicate IO.
5. Read errors, short reads and failed waits retain reload failure after joining.
6. Ambiguous delivered sends can join; nondelivery never times out to success.
7. Handle changes between begin and reservation are rejected before public IO.

All 112 preceding groups pass on the rebuilt ELF: file worker 9, read queue 7,
read evidence 8, reload ownership 19, reload transport 14, compact transport 14,
reload manager 19, publication workflow 17 and direct prefetch 5. With the new
seven groups, 119 groups pass across ten suites. This is not a full repo run.

The compiled producer, compiled file-worker adapter and original file-worker
instructions share one controlled emulator CPU. Enclosing RtTask RUNNING state,
task switches, kernel queue copying, semaphore results and public file effects
are fixtures. Tests interleave retained producer steps with worker execution;
they do not yet execute the original synchronous producer call chain through
installed wrappers. No real scheduling, interrupts, SD durability or physical
placement is established, and no device was accessed.

Next integration work
Implement synchronous native calling glue and test the original callers through
it, including error exits and ordinary traffic. Bind file/card lifetimes and
resolve optional-feature fault isolation (the current worker fault policy can
stall shared file work). Only then connect verified startup completion to worker
release. Physical code/RAM placement and hardware testing remain separate work.

Follow-up: read_callback_findings.txt records rp_callback driving these phases
inside original initial-prefetch calls with saved-stack emulator scheduling.
Scoped routing/installation, storage lifetimes and fault isolation remain open.
