SYNCHRONOUS INITIAL-READ CALLBACK
4 October 2026

Result
rp_callback in read_producer.c now drives the retained producer phases from one
synchronous call. In the emulator, original assignment and Main reload bodies
call through the original prefetch loop into this compiled wrapper. The wrapper
does not return until its matching read ticket has joined. All eight initial
reads complete with the expected sample bytes before stock conversion continues.

Why a synchronous wrapper is necessary
Stock callback 0x80036208 has arguments (pad, buffer, byte_count). It sends once
and returns the native semaphore-wait result. Prefetch calls it at 0x80036b56 or
0x80036b0c; neither continuation checks that result before conversion. Therefore
returning an ownership BUSY/error code would allow the original code to proceed
without the required evidence. The new wrapper keeps retrying internally.

Wrapper behavior
- Begin once; an invalid/duplicate entry does not replace the retained request.
- Drive rp_step until the matching read joins. Each pending phase yields through
  the bound port. The send and native semaphore wait still happen only once.
- Retrieve and return the saved native wait result after joining.
- Preserve IO/short-read/wait errors for final reload verification. As in stock
  code, conversion can follow a joined failed read; successful reload approval
  remains forbidden. This wrapper does not claim failed audio is usable.
- On a tracking invariant failure, latch the gate fault and park in a yielding
  loop instead of returning to the caller. An unbound misuse parks with WFE;
  installation must always follow binding. No timeout establishes completion.

The failure policy is deliberately unfinished. A parked caller can retain the
stock prefetch synchronization acquired before the callback, and parking Main
can stall user-interface work. Production fault isolation and safe unwinding are
required before deployment; a gate fault alone does not fix stock resource use.

Scope and routing
rp_callback is for explicitly attributed initial reload reads only. It is not a
global replacement for 0x80036208 or every configured sample-read callback.
Ordinary/periodic reads require their stock path and may have different EOF and
lifetime rules. Tests explicitly select attributed interception or the ordinary
route; a compiled dispatcher and installation/cutover policy remain unimplemented.
Both tracked roles still require their bound native task and live RtTask envelope.

Verification
  python tools/firmware/build_overdub_prototype.py
  python tests/emulation/verify_read_callback.py
Report: analysis/read_callback_verification.json

Seven groups pass:
1. Four assignment plus four Main prefetches complete before exact conversion,
   with delayed worker scheduling after an early semaphore wakeup.
2. Short reads, raw IO errors and failed waits retain reload failure after join.
3. Four measured completion-lock retries preserve the suspended caller stack
   without repeated sends or semaphore waits.
4. Undelivered requests do not reach conversion or a reload-completion event.
5. A changed parent identity parks the callback and latches a fault.
6. Explicit ordinary routing runs the original callback with no read-ticket
   evidence, preserving all eight fixture sample buffers.
7. Invalid attributed arguments park without sending or returning to the caller.

All 119 preceding groups pass on the rebuilt ELF. Including these seven, 126
groups pass across eleven suites: callback 7, producer 7, worker 9, read queue 7,
read evidence 8, reload ownership 19, reload transport 14, compact transport 14,
reload manager 19, publication workflow 17 and prefetch 5. Not a full repo run.

Test boundaries
One Unicorn CPU executes the original assignment/UI/prefetch and file-worker
instructions with the compiled callback and read adapters. At explicit yield
boundaries, the fixture saves registers, runs the file worker on a separate
stack, restores the caller registers and resumes that exact continuation.
Shared memory is not copied between CPUs. This tests continuation across yields;
it does not emulate RTOS context-switch code or arbitrary interrupt preemption.

The fixture supplies enclosing RUNNING reload scopes, callback-entry redirection,
kernel queue copying, semaphore outcomes, file effects, WAV parsing and sample
conversion. The file worker is entered at its retained receive-loop boundary on
each scheduled pass. Ordinary semaphore waits are explicitly scheduled as blocked
until their worker runs. The negative tests observe 150 retained scheduling
boundaries, without treating that fixture bound as a production timeout.

No installed dispatcher, branch patch, physical placement, SD durability, real
audio output or startup release is demonstrated. No device/card access occurred.

Next
Bind scoped callback routing without enrolling ordinary traffic accidentally.
Establish file/card lifetime ownership and safe failure handling for both the
file worker and its synchronous callers. These remain prerequisites for wiring
startup-worker release; memory placement and hardware trials are still separate.

Follow-up: read_routing_findings.txt records compiled task/state/call-site routing
and a stock callback forwarder. Test-time route selection is no longer needed
in that suite. Shared ingress binding, installation and ownership remain open.
