FILE-TASK BINDING AND RETAINED READ RETRIES
4 October 2026

Result
read_worker.c now drives tagged file requests through the original sample
file-worker receive/read boundaries. It uses the original current-task getter,
checks the stock task and queue handles, retains dequeued packets during a busy
decode, and retains read results/completion during later contention. Neither
file IO nor the original signal is repeated by these metadata retries.

The new adapter and original 0x80036118 file-worker body execute on ONE emulated
CPU. Entry interception, scheduling and public file effects remain fixtures.
No branch patches are installed, and startup release remains unwired.

Permanent binding
rw_bind copies a 56-byte RwBinding into the adapter's permanent state. It requires
an existing coordinator/ledger, distinct aligned nonnull read-slot pointers
(unused entries may be null), at least one read slot, nonzero stock handles and
receive/read/yield ports. The supplied worker must match 0x80446dc4; the queue
must match 0x801f8f30. Binding cannot be replaced. Pointed-to storage must remain
valid; physical memory placement and task-handle reuse are not solved here.

Each receive/read entry checks IPSR thread context, the original current-task
getter 0x800770e8, and the current stock handle slots. Wrong task or changed handle
does not dequeue or perform IO. This prevents a stale configuration from silently
operating as a different task; it does not prove ownership of the file's lifetime.
The private 112-byte state contains copied configuration, packet, task attribution,
read result and retry phase. Its reentry latch is per-task; it may span that task's
blocking receive/read, but no shared read/ledger metadata latch spans IO or yield.

Receive and return ordering
rw_next replaces only the file-worker call at 0x80036152, not every queue receive.
It first completes any prior owned request's metadata. Then it receives into its
own persistent 16-byte packet buffer, decodes and copies a valid stock request to
the original worker's output buffer. A busy decode retains the packet and returns
-1 after yielding. The original worker loops back; the next call retries that
packet without fetching another message.

The next receive boundary follows the preceding worker body's signal return.
At that point the adapter commits any retained public-read observation, then
acknowledges rr_queue_return before fetching another packet. If observation or
return is busy, it retains its phase and yields. Once the observation succeeds,
return retries do not submit that observation again. No stock read, zero fill or
signal is reexecuted by retrying metadata.

Stale packets are consumed without executing file work and yield before the next
receive. Ordinary kind-0 reads and kind-1 seeks use the original request body
without invented reload evidence. Malformed packets or impossible owned state
latch the ownership fault and stop this adapter from fetching further work.
That is a conservative prototype fault policy, not a finished device recovery
policy: it can stall subsequent ordinary work on the shared file task. Recovery
or optional-feature isolation must be resolved before deploying this behavior.

Public read boundary
rw_read replaces only the call at 0x80036184. Its port points at original public
read 0x80060620, so failures before lower-driver entry can be observed when the
port is wired to that implementation. For tagged reads it validates buffer/count,
nonzero handle and equality with the current pad handle at
0x80735180 + 0x9a4 + 20*pad. It clears the output count before calling the port,
then retains raw status/count before returning them unchanged to the stock body.
This comparison is not an immutable handle snapshot or card/file lifetime fence;
producer-side handle/storage ownership still needs binding.

The original worker remains responsible for its normal first-error latch,
short-read zero filling, callbacks and semaphore signal. The adapter observes
their underlying result without replacing those behaviors. A stock missing-handle
path signals without calling public read; the next adapter entry detects the
absent result, retains the read reservation and faults instead of inventing success.

Verification
  python tools/firmware/build_overdub_prototype.py
  python tests/emulation/verify_read_worker.py
Report: analysis/read_worker_verification.json

Nine groups pass:
1. Original worker with compiled native receive/read/return tracking on one CPU.
2. Busy decode retains a dequeued packet with no second receive.
3. Normal/error/short results survive observation contention, without repeated IO.
4. Busy return retries only completion after the observation has committed.
5. Wrong task, changed stock handles and replacement binding are rejected.
6. A stale packet does not read or claim a later request using the same slot.
7. Ordinary read and seek retain their original worker behavior.
8. Missing-handle signaling cannot supply read-success evidence.
9. Malformed messages fault and prevent further unverified file work.

Affected regressions pass: read queue 7, read evidence 8, reload ownership 19,
reload transport 14, compact transport 14, reload manager 19, publication workflow
17 and direct prefetch 5. Including the nine new groups, 112 groups pass across
nine suites on the rebuilt ELF. This is not a full repository test run.

Test boundaries
The fixture selects the current task, copies kernel queue bytes, supplies public
read/seek results, and redirects PC/LR at the two stock call sites. The original
file task, public-read adapter and metadata retry paths execute together. The
yield port pauses at a retained boundary; the fixture reenters the worker loop
for the next scheduled pass. It does not replay a suspended in-progress read.
The Cortex-M7 configuration provides instruction support and does not identify
the physical chip. No real interrupts, driver timing, DMA or SD durability are
tested, and no installed trampoline/cache behavior is claimed.

Remaining work
Bind producer task/envelope selection and ticket publication before the request
enters the queue. The producer must retain/retry its join after a wakeup that
precedes this adapter's return acknowledgement. Establish an immutable handle
and storage lifetime, deliberate fault isolation, queue cutover and physical
placement. After card/reload ownership is fully bound, connect verified completion
to native_worker_release. No mixer/card access occurred; hardware testing is deferred.

Follow-up: read_producer_findings.txt documents native producer binding and
retained early-wakeup joins. rw_read now also checks the producer's immutable
handle snapshot when present. File/card lifetime ownership, synchronous caller
integration and the shared-worker fault policy remain unresolved.
