COMPILED INITIAL-READ EVIDENCE AND RELOAD OWNERSHIP
4 October 2026

Result
reload_read.c now retains the public-read status and transferred count under
the reload branch that requested the read. An exact successful read can finish
its reservation after the producer's matching completion wait. A failed/short
read records a persistent reload error before releasing that reservation. The
normal loading indicator or correct-looking pad paths cannot override it.

The connection is exercised with original reload, prefetch and file-worker
instructions in the emulator harness. Native task attribution, ticket transport
and public-read interception are NOT installed. native_worker_release is still
unwired: these tests do not authorize startup on the physical mixer.

Implementation
- RrRead was 64 bytes at this milestone (68 with the subsequent queue-state word)
  of permanent zero-once storage per outstanding read. Reuse
  requires DONE. It owns a copy of the reload envelope, request, unique ticket,
  coordinator identity, raw result, actual count and interpreted error.
- rr_begin validates pad, nonzero buffer/count and nonwrapping buffer range.
  rl_read_reserve verifies the exact currently claimed, not-returned reload
  branch before reserving a child in the existing ledger. Wrong/stale tags do
  not admit a read. This is an internal lifetime scope, not a new queue format.
- rr_ready advances that scope through offer/accept/claim. These transitions
  establish the internal synchronous-read scope; ACCEPTED is NOT a claim that
  the stock queue has delivered a message. The caller must reach OK before send.
  BUSY retains the phase for retry; no lock spans filesystem work or waiting.
- rr_observe accepts exactly one status/count result for the matching running
  ticket. It keeps any raw nonzero status; status zero with a mismatched count
  becomes error 0xffff0003. A duplicate or late result cannot affect a later read.
- rr_finish is called only after the corresponding file-worker/wait completion
  has joined. It first commits the interpreted error through rl_io_error, then
  closes the read scope. Missing observation returns BUSY. Metadata contention
  retains state; retries never repeat the read. The caller supplies trustworthy
  join evidence: this API is not itself a semaphore or hardware completion probe.
- The existing parent/child ledger keeps even a returned reload branch alive
  while any read reservation remains. Final verification cannot pass that join.
  An error copied into the reload job prevents successful retirement even if
  final paths and loading indicators appear normal.

Length and EOF policy
This first adapter covers exact initial sample reads only. Expected length is
the requested byte count supplied before send. Raw EOF, zero count, short count
and an impossible excess count all fail. It does not make exceptions based on
the fact that stock code pads a short read with zeros. Periodic refills and reads
intentionally spanning EOF need a separately justified policy and must not use
this adapter blindly. No requirement to load all four pads is imposed by the
API: it tracks the reads actually admitted for the selected startup contents.

Offline integration
verify_reload_read.py extends the preceding direct-prefetch fixture. A separate
CPU executes the compiled ownership/read module; the reload and file-worker CPUs
execute the original bodies. The harness binds each current WORKER/UI envelope
before read submission, reserves a read ticket, captures public-read status/count
before the stock worker can mask them, and finishes the scope after its matching
signal/wait. Eight successful reads (four assignment plus four Main reload reads)
receive distinct monotonically increasing tickets under the correct branches.

This is explicit cross-emulator coupling, not device queue transport. Public
file reads, parsing, conversion and scheduling retain the preceding fixture
boundaries. The native queue has not been enlarged or reinterpreted, and no
global mutable current-owner variable is proposed for production use.

Verification
  python tools/firmware/build_overdub_prototype.py
  python tests/emulation/verify_reload_read.py

Eight groups pass: correct branch attribution for eight reads; raw and short
read failure in either reload stage; missing observation/delivery; returned-body
join protection; metadata contention; stale/duplicate/early/wrong-coordinator
handling; strict EOF/overcount/zero-count policy; and invalid ranges/tags.
The original failed/short-read cases still reach normal-looking pad paths, but
the compiled reload retirement now rejects them. Missing work stays pending.

Affected regressions pass on the rebuilt ELF:
  read evidence 8; reload ownership 19; transport 14; compact transport 14;
  reload manager 19; publication workflow 17; direct prefetch 5.
Total: 96 groups across seven suites. Build uses warnings as errors.
Report: analysis/reload_read_verification.json, plus each named suite's report.

Remaining integration
Bind the immutable read ticket to native file requests and receive context,
capture full PUBLIC-read results including failures before lower-driver entry,
and bind verified producer joins. Both request endpoints must change together;
ordinary untracked reads cannot be retroactively attributed. Missing/uncertain
delivery must retain ownership. Resolve card/USB admission and initial content
selection before using completed reload evidence to call native_worker_release.
Registration placement, stock allocation headroom and physical code/RAM placement
remain open. No firmware image was generated or installed; device testing remains
deferred.

Follow-up: reload_read_queue_findings.txt adds compiled 16-byte ticket messages,
consumer matching and a worker-return acknowledgement. Native task binding and
receive-loop retention remain integration work.
