L6 RELOAD OWNERSHIP ACROSS WORKER AND UI CONTINUATION
4 October 2026

Result
Added a compiled offline reload coordinator which retains one non-reused owner
across original producer return, assignment-worker return, UI event publication,
UI follow-up return, and attributed asynchronous descendants. It cannot release
on the stock shared busy flag or generic completion event. A positive final
postcondition is required after all descendants join; no default success exists.

19 new groups pass, including execution of the original reload worker and the
second UI reload under the proposed ownership protocol. The final regression
inventory is 329 groups across 21 suites, with hashes in
reload_ownership_regression.json. Counts include negative controls; they are not
a hardware-readiness score. No stock firmware, device or SD card was modified.

Implementation
src/overdub/reload_ownership.h and reload_ownership.c
  RlCoordinator is 392 bytes: permanent ledger pointer, short try-lock and eight
  48-byte job records. Its 16-byte envelope contains magic, owner, child and role.
  Initialize once before participants run; never reset a live coordinator/ledger.
src/overdub/work_ownership.c and .h
  New non-retiring session-drained query checks that a live session has no
  children before final result verification can be accepted.
tests/emulation/verify_reload_ownership.py
  Compiled protocol tests plus explicit harness binding to original reload/UI.
src/overdub/emulator.ld
  Added an assertion that this offline ELF fits below the separate capture
  fixture at 10010000. This is an emulator constraint, not device placement.

Ownership sequence
1. rl_begin reserves and admits an OWN_SESSION owner before the original reload
   producer's first side effect. It may be a child of an already-owned USB/card
   lifetime; finishing the reload will then leave that containing owner intact.
   It reserves/offers the worker branch before any queue publication.
2. The sender obtains the worker's envelope. The receiver must validate/claim it
   before running stock code. Enqueue outcome is recorded separately from the
   original producer's return. Both matter: a fast worker can finish while its
   original submitting function is still running.
3. While the worker is running, rl_prepare_ui reserves/offers a separate UI branch
   under the same owner BEFORE its event is published. A fast UI is therefore
   already attributed, even if it claims/completes before event-send returns.
4. Worker/UI original bodies run outside the coordinator latch. Their actual
   returns call rl_complete with their own envelopes. The worker cannot complete
   without a reserved UI branch. Duplicate claims/returns and mismatched or old
   envelopes do not execute/release another branch.
5. All file/prefetch descendants must inherit the corresponding branch child.
   The ledger keeps completed branches and their parent alive while those
   descendants remain outstanding. Error observers can report against that
   attributed envelope after the stock body returns, before relinquishing the
   final descendant reference.
6. rl_verify remains BUSY until producer, worker and UI have returned and all
   descendant references are joined. A caller must then collect final intended
   path/options/I/O evidence, not reuse a snapshot taken before those joins.
   The API cannot establish the meaning/freshness of evidence supplied by an
   incorrect caller; that is the still-unbound production adapter's contract.
7. rl_finish only retires with positive verification and no retained error.
   An unverified operation stays owned. A rejected verification or I/O error
   faults the ledger and retains ownership. Rejection cannot be overwritten by
   later verification success; a stock successful-looking result cannot erase
   a recorded close error. There is no live reset, timeout release or automatic
   recovery of an uncertain operation.

Failure and capacity behavior
An ambiguous send failure stays owned indefinitely if no receiver appears.
Actual worker/UI completion can resolve an ambiguous delivery indication.
Positive NOT_SENT evidence for a required branch faults the overall reload;
this prototype does not pretend that an omitted reload/UI operation succeeded.
A NOT_SENT assertion after a receiver has started is contradictory and faults.

Malformed or stale envelopes return a rejection without touching newer jobs.
A consumer must not execute their stock bodies. On metadata-lock BUSY, it must
retain the dequeued envelope and retry; BUSY is not permission to discard it.
No real task wakeup/retry scheduler is installed here.

Eight job records are bounded by the shared sixteen-entry ledger as well. Each
reload needs owner and worker entries, plus a UI entry and any I/O descendants.
Exhaustion before initial admission blocks work. A resource failure after
partial admission keeps the attributed references and faults rather than
publishing an unowned event. Real capacity/backpressure and fair scheduling
still need design; eight simultaneous full reloads are not promised.

The short coordinator latch is never held across stock callbacks or file I/O.
Metadata sequences which partly succeed and then lose ledger-lock access fail
closed instead of pretending no reservation happened. This favors correctness
over availability; production contention/retry policy remains unmeasured.

Original-code integration evidence
The harness admits a reload before running original 80008d68. It captures the
stock queued message and pairs it with an immutable envelope at the proposed
transport boundary. Before the original 80036290 worker dispatches 80049da0, the
compiled protocol claims the worker envelope. At the original event transport
boundary 8006e4b8, the compiled protocol reserves the UI branch, creates its tag
and records submission. Original callback return at 800362b6 completes the
worker branch, but publication remains blocked by the outstanding UI branch.

The later UI claims its envelope, runs original event handler 8002d568 and the
second unload/reload sequence, then completes only after return. The original
callback and UI file events are observed while ledger promotion returns BUSY.
A separate explicit postcondition check then permits retirement. The harness
runs compiled metadata on an independent ARM CPU so it does not reset the live
stock caller's registers during an intercepted boundary.

An injected close failure in the second UI reload passes the stock final pad
snapshots but is captured by the attributed close observer. Finishing then
returns FAULT and retains ownership. A late WAV load rejection fails the intended
path comparison and also retains ownership. File descendants deliberately left
running block both verification and retirement even after both stock bodies
return. Retiring this reload under a containing storage owner does not release
that outer session.

Scope and remaining installation work
The envelope is a PROPOSED ABI. It is not a drop-in modification of the existing
32-byte callback queue or 20-byte UI event. This test pairs immutable tags with
messages in the harness and supplies task-local attribution explicitly. There
is no installed queue decoder, UI adapter, side-table lookup or firmware patch.
Production producer and receiver must change together after draining old queues;
identical event words cannot safely recover identity by themselves.

Stock file-driver, WAV-parser, settings, individual stop, prefetch/conversion,
save and RTOS effects remain the established emulator models. The new close
observer is harness-bound. Complete open/read/write/short-write/seek/finalizer/
close/save instrumentation and real asynchronous attribution remain unfinished.
The coordinator can retain reported evidence; it cannot detect an unobserved
failure or an untracked task merely from flags.

The parent USB/card and ordinary-recorder lifetime entry points are still not
installed. Global publication therefore remains a guarded offline prototype.
This stage closes the two-branch lifetime model; it does not establish complete
device storage exclusion, timing, DMA/cache correctness, placement, recovery or
firmware installation readiness. Extra-capture ELF is unchanged in this stage.

Next concrete step
Bind the tagged transport and task-local context to the recovered worker/event
boundaries, with retained-envelope retry on BUSY and checked submission outcomes.
Add the checked file-operation observers and propagate context into real read/
seek/prefetch descendants. Then connect the containing card-session admission
before USB/storage handover and verified return. Do not substitute stock busy=0
or the completion event for the verified result/descendant join.

Reproduce
  /tmp/l6-re-tools/bin/python tools/firmware/build_overdub_prototype.py
  /tmp/l6-re-tools/bin/python tests/emulation/verify_reload_ownership.py
