STARTUP ORDER AND OPTIONAL WORKER RELEASE
4 October 2026

Result
The proposed interval after task/queue creation and before scheduler start is
not sufficient to authorize file preparation. Registration now leaves the added
worker waiting. A separate, explicit release is required from the stock Main
task after verified initialization and storage admission. No production release
site is approved or wired. Scheduler state and task identity alone cannot prove
readiness; the new API deliberately leaves that obligation with its caller.

Five new original-instruction audit groups and all seven native-worker groups
pass. The capture ELF builds with warnings treated as errors. No device access,
firmware image generation or installation occurred.

1. Early boot already configures an interrupt source
Original main 0x80067a60 calls cache/board setup, clock configuration, the timer
wrapper at 0x8007773a, task/queue initialization, then scheduler startup. The
timer wrapper reaches copied code 0x2022a988. With the stock clock constants it
writes SysTick reload 599999, priority 0xf0, and control 7 before task creation.
The control bits enable the timer and its interrupt source. This does NOT show
that an interrupt has already executed: inherited masks, exception delivery and
peripheral activity are outside this fixture. It rules out assuming that no
interrupt source has been enabled at the candidate registration point.

The audit executes main, clock setup, the original copied timer routine and
the complete task/queue initializer. Cache/board bodies are intercepted, task
creation and synchronization allocation are fixtures, and queue allocation uses
the original code over synthetic heap backing. No exceptions are delivered.

2. A queue handle or the initialization flag is insufficient
Initializer 0x80048248 attempts all 35 tasks, 86 synchronization objects and
eight queues. It accumulates failure as -1 but still sets its done byte at
0x801f8f1c to 1. A repeated call sees that byte and returns zero without retry.
The caller at 0x80067a80 immediately invokes scheduler startup at 0x80067a84;
it does not test the returned status.

Tests force failures of the first task, first synchronization object, first
queue and RecPlayCtl queue. All reach the scheduler call with r0=-1 and the done
byte set. The first three retain a nonzero RecPlayCtl queue. Therefore checking
only that queue (as native_worker_register currently does) cannot establish
successful stock initialization. Any actual registration hook must additionally
preserve and inspect the original initializer result. Optional setup must be
skipped on failure without rewriting the stock result or attempting a second
initialization to infer success.

3. The essential idle task has not yet been allocated
Scheduler entry 0x800745b8 first creates an idle task with 90 stack words,
priority 0, then sets the scheduler-running flag and enters the kernel. The
original creator also allocates a 148-byte task object, plus allocator overhead.
The candidate optional registration interval precedes that allocation.

The original scheduler success branch and forced creator-failure branch execute
in the audit. Failure -1 enters the terminal loop at 0x80074628 before setting
the running flag. An optional allocation succeeding does not prove that stock
startup can still succeed afterwards. A production design must reserve stock
allocation capacity or move optional registration after successful idle-task
creation while preserving the other initialization checks. This audit does not
establish a complete reserve: later stock initialization also allocates memory.

4. Scheduler start precedes substantial Main-task initialization
Task Main starts at 0x8006dd70. After its timestamp and early setup it calls
0x8001b0e8, then 0x8002f8a0, then enters 0x8002c1e8. The original control flow
of 0x8001b0e8 contains multiple timed waits. A fixture clock held at zero takes
four such waits on the examined normal branch. Other tasks could run while
Main waits; a lower worker priority does not itself enforce initialization order.

The UI startup prefix at 0x8002c1e8 calls card setup 0x80009a40 AFTER those two
Main-task initialization bodies. The audit executes that prefix up to mode
selection, with child drivers and their results intercepted. This proves call
ordering, not successful mounting, pad loading, or storage exclusion. Prior
storage_publication_findings.txt also demonstrates that card setup returning
zero can occur without usable storage or completed pad reloads. Neither the
return from the board initializer nor a zero mount/setup result is a release
condition by itself.

5. Compiled worker now requires explicit release
Successful native_worker_register publishes W_WAITING, retaining the closed
optional audio/control gateways set by manager_boot. Worker entry sleeps using
idle_ticks while waiting; it performs no manager steps, arena clearing or file
operations. native_worker_release requires thread context, a running scheduler,
a nonzero stock Main handle at 0x80446da4, and matching current-task identity.
An atomic one-way transition W_WAITING -> W_READY admits manager polling.
Duplicate release and release from other states are rejected. This API is not
a readiness detector and has no installed caller.

The additional test runs five waiting entry-loop passes and checks unchanged
manager state, no file operations and closed active bindings. Missing/wrong
Main identity and stopped-scheduler release are rejected. An explicit fixture
release then permits normal activation and an exact-payload take. Existing
worker tests now explicitly supply that fixture authorization, rather than
treating registration as proof of readiness.

Reproduction
  python tools/firmware/build_extra_capture.py
  python tests/emulation/verify_startup_order.py
  python tests/emulation/verify_native_worker.py
Reports:
  analysis/startup_order_verification.json
  analysis/native_worker_verification.json

Limits and next work
No whole-device boot, real preemption, timer interrupts, DMA or storage operation
is simulated. Early board/cache initialization is not executed. The scheduler
audit uses Cortex-M7 instruction support for BASEPRI; this is not identification
of the physical chip. The startup fixture does not execute the added worker in
the same CPU: its waiting/release behavior is covered by the separate compiled
worker suite.

Next trace the actual normal-mode storage/reload completion and ownership path
to define a release condition, then choose registration placement that preserves
stock initialization status and allocation needs. Early hook safety, code/RAM
placement, stack/priority budgets and measured timing remain open. Until then
the adapter's default is to remain waiting. Hardware testing remains deferred.

Follow-up: reload_prefetch_findings.txt executes the original direct-prefetch
read handshake. Those reads are joined before reload return in the tested
schedule, but read status/count must also be observed because normal completion
indicators hide failures. No startup-release hook is approved by that result.
