L6 CONTROL ADMISSION COORDINATOR: COMPILED OFFLINE PROTOTYPE
4 October 2026

Result
Implemented a 340-byte compiled coordinator for five inspected whole control
handlers. It accepts copied scalar commands, executes them in FIFO order on a
worker, closes new execution admission, joins the currently running handler and
keeps unstarted commands pending until an explicit matching-epoch reopen.
An accepted command is not reported complete until its original handler returns.

11 new groups pass. Relevant rebuilt-prototype and firmware-audit regressions
also pass: 231 groups across 14 suites. Exact inventory and hashes are in
control_coordinator_regression.json. Historical negative controls are included;
test totals are not hardware-readiness measures.
No stock firmware or device/card was changed. The rebuilt overdub.elf is an
offline test artifact, not a firmware update.

Files
prototype/overdub/control_coordinator.h and control_coordinator.c
prototype/overdub/control_fixture.c (synthetic test effect callback only)
tools/build_overdub_prototype.py
tools/verify_control_coordinator.py
analysis/control_coordinator_verification.json

1. Supported whole operations
The compiled stock-dispatch adapter executes:
  kind 1: 0x8000e748, two scalar arguments (first effect parameter handler)
  kind 2: 0x8000e7b0, two scalar arguments (second effect parameter handler)
  kind 3: 0x80006ca8, no arguments (inspected mode workflow)
  kind 4: 0x80006fc8, no arguments (second inspected mode workflow)
  kind 5: 0x8001d968, no arguments (opposite selector workflow)
It enters these functions at their starts, not in the middle at a selector store.
Other mode/effect/import callers are not covered by this five-operation set.

This is a proposed upstream dispatcher ABI. The harness submits commands before
original handlers execute; no existing UI, MIDI or task dispatcher is patched.
Original synchronous calls are not intercepted and handed a new BUSY return.
An upstream adapter must retain the event, preserve ordering and defer caller
completion until its accepted ticket is DONE. If no slot is available, the
upstream owner must keep the event and retry; FULL does not accept/drop the event.

Only the two scalar words supported by these operations are copied. No borrowed
caller payload/source pointers are stored. Mode jobs require both words zero.
Future commands containing pointers need an explicit ownership/copying design.
No original handler return ABI is replaced by the new completion status: DONE
only says that the dispatched handler returned, not that its requested effect
was independently validated or that stock internal errors were diagnosed.

2. Admission, execution and closure
OcCoordinator contains a short atomic try-lock, ticket sequence, closure epoch,
closed flag, one running ticket and 16 job slots. Initialize it to zero once
before participants run. It remains allocated; no live reset/destruction or
public fault-recovery operation is provided. Passed pointers refer to valid,
non-overlapping caller-owned storage; this is not a memory-permission validator.

oc_submit returns a fresh, non-reused ticket. Its payload is owned until completion
is consumed. Submission does not execute original code or return an original
function's success. oc_take_done on queued/running work returns BUSY.

oc_run_one admits the lowest-ticket queued job only while open and no handler is
running. It marks that job RUNNING, releases the metadata lock and dispatches the
whole original operation. Original effects-lock waits and parameter-copy waits
therefore do not hold the coordinator lock or stop its manager from closing.
A second worker cannot enter another original handler while this one runs.

After dispatch returns, a release store publishes DONE as the worker's last
access to that job. Completion consumption acquires that state before reclaiming
the slot. DONE records retain their slots until consumed; no completion is
silently overwritten. A running marker pointing at DONE can be reaped by the
manager or next worker. Reusing a slot always assigns a fresh ticket.

oc_close closes execution admission and issues a fresh epoch. Unstarted commands,
including ones already queued before closure, remain parked. Commands submitted
while closed can also be accepted into available slots, but cannot start. They
have no original-handler side effects yet. An already admitted handler continues
normally, including audio-dependent work, until its actual return.

oc_drained succeeds only for the current closed epoch with no running handler.
It does not require parked commands to disappear; those are held for later
execution and must not be confused with completed commands. It does not by
itself acknowledge audio return, drain sampler reads, acquire card ownership or
validate ordinary recorder state.

oc_reopen requires the matching closed epoch and drained active control work.
Its caller must additionally establish readiness through the external playback,
card and recording protocol. No automatic reopen occurs on a timeout. Old,
missing, duplicate or wrong epochs are rejected. Ticket/epoch exhaustion refuses
new operations instead of wrapping. No queue timer, task wakeup or starvation
policy is implemented in this stage.

3. Actual original-code integration evidence
The tests execute the original effects import-table initializer, the five handler
entry paths and stock selector stores. Deep subsystem bodies within mode workflows
remain stubs. The effects-lock kernel wait/signal and ordinary plug-in callback
body remain models, explicitly inherited from the prior caller audit.

One test suspends the worker in the original effects-lock wait. An independent
manager CPU closes the compiled coordinator and submits another command using a
copy of its shared state. Drain/reopen cannot succeed while the first handler is
pending. After resumption, the original parameter value is used, the first job
becomes DONE, and the later one stays queued until explicit reopen.

A stronger integration test uses control_fixture.c as a synthetic effect callback
which calls the REAL stock word-copy import through the original import table.
The coordinator runs the original handler, which reaches that callback, publishes
a real deferred copy and waits at its original poll. The manager closes admission
and correctly remains undrained. A separate audio CPU then executes the full
original normal callback, including its secondary dispatcher, and completes the
copy. Only after the original producer and handler return does the compiled
coordinator report drained. The subsequent mode command remains parked.

This is controlled CPU interleaving with explicit shared-memory transfer. It is
not a simulated complete RTOS or real task preemption/cache/DMA behavior. The
synthetic effect callback is test infrastructure, not a replacement Zoom effect.
The worker must be distinct from audio: executing a blocking parameter-copy
producer on the audio task would not be made safe by this coordinator.

4. Verification
11 new groups cover FIFO whole-handler execution; accepted-versus-DONE semantics;
parking before and after closure; closing during an original lock wait; real
imported copy completion through original audio; mode workflow deferral before
entry; scalar-payload ownership; queue saturation and retained completions;
fresh tickets and closure epochs; no wraparound; invalid payload and try-lock
contention; and prevention of duplicate/concurrent worker execution.

The rebuilt prior pad suites and relevant audit suites also pass. Their combined
inventory is recorded separately so the 231 total is not confused with the prior
capture-only suite counts. The extra-capture ELF is unchanged.

5. What remains before connecting automatic pad publication
This implements control admission and drain, not the complete all-reader fence.
The default playback fence still returns BUSY, and manager/pad publication has
not been enabled with a synthetic success result.

Next integrate a non-reused callback-completion request/acknowledgement with this
closed-and-drained control state. It must track the actual callback admitted at
entry, reject invalid mode/secondary-state changes, and wait for actual return.
Combine that with existing playback session and stream-child ownership, then
establish physical card/ordinary-recorder exclusion before any pad assignment.

Production ingress still requires a real UI/task adapter at whole-event boundaries,
coverage of the other mode and imported-callback callers, caller-context/lock
ordering verification, source/event lifetime, cancellation/fault reporting,
backpressure and task-priority/wakeup design. The implementation cannot be dropped
at a void-like low-level setter and assumed to defer its caller correctly.

Memory placement, real interrupt/DMA/cache behavior, storage timing, boot recovery
and update packaging remain separate. No hardware installation is recommended
by this emulator-stage result.

Reproduce
  /tmp/l6-re-tools/bin/python tools/build_overdub_prototype.py
  /tmp/l6-re-tools/bin/python tools/verify_control_coordinator.py

Subsequent stage: audio completion
The following implementation stage appends 32 bytes of audio completion state
(coordinator now 372 bytes) and pins reopen when an optional audio request is
pending. See audio_completion_findings.txt and audio_completion_regression.json
for current implementation behavior, tests and hashes. The 340-byte description
and 231-group inventory above describe the preceding control-only stage.
