L6 VERIFIED EXTRA-CAPTURE RESULTS TO SOUND PADS
4 October 2026

Result
The compiled manager's completed-result ring now feeds the compiled pad publisher.
An offline six-take test assigns the newest four additional pre-master WAVs to
pads 1 through 4, in order, using original stock assignment/catalogue control
flow and the existing strict settings adapter. Every source WAV remains intact.
The processed MASTER and clean input files are neither moved nor substituted.

Eleven new groups pass. Relevant regressions also pass: 343 groups across 26
suites on the current two ELFs, including historical negative controls. See
pad_publisher_regression.json for the exact inventory and build hashes.
Stock image SHA-256 remains:
64f1f36b8383176b5d841911fbf3c16205139a313ee88be906f313b1a98a33fb

This is a boundary integration test, not installed firmware or a complete RTOS
simulation. No L6, real SD card or device firmware was written.

Implementation
prototype/extra_capture/pad_publisher.c adds manager_publish_pads(manager,state,
port). The caller supplies persistent, zeroed, non-overlapping publication State
and a valid Port table. These remain valid across calls and must not be used by
another publisher. State currently occupies 17,244 synthetic bytes; its real
memory placement and stack budget have not been established.

manager_visit_results holds the manager's existing atomic try-lock throughout
the synchronous worker callback. It permits publication only at M_RESET, after
the completed take's verification and transport shutdown, before preparation
of another active capture. Cancelled, busy, armed and other manager states return
BUSY without invoking the visitor. Reset, result copying and a second visitor
cannot compete while publication performs file work. This manager lock does NOT
exclude ordinary recording, stock pad readers, card changes or rescans.

The visitor passes the manager's entire newest-first ring snapshot to the shared
publication body, checking nonzero, descending session IDs. Completion provenance
comes from the manager rather than fabricated ordinary-MASTER close/postprocess
flags. The trusted internal od_publish_completed_paths entry is not a generic
UI import API: its caller must establish completed-file provenance. The existing
od_promote entry retains its ordinary-MASTER eligibility checks for older tests.

The shared publisher validates source paths for termination and duplicates,
revalidates stereo 48 kHz float32 RIFF containers, exclusively creates unique
pad-specific destination copies, rereads and compares their bytes, inserts
catalogue entries, applies stock assignments, checks path/loaded-state/options,
and verifies a grouped settings write. Existing pad options remain unchanged.
Copies use ODxxxxxxxx.WAV; captured sources use OD_xxxxxxxx.WAV, avoiding name
collision between these two producers. Existing destination collisions fail
without overwriting. Explicit later retries advance the publication serial.

Only successful publication commits publisher history. Repeating the same
snapshot performs no file/settings IO. Consuming the whole snapshot also handles
publication delayed across several completed takes: it selects the latest four,
not just the most recent result plus an outdated publisher history. Older source
files are preserved even when their manager metadata has left the four-slot ring.

Failure and scheduling contracts
Port.enter must positively acquire and retain exclusion of ordinary recording,
playback/render accesses, outstanding stream reads/seeks, rescans and card-mode
changes until Port.leave. The manager's extra-capture fence cannot substitute
for this. The fixture defaults to an unacknowledged renderer fence and refuses
publication. Playback active, outstanding readers, or missing fence confirmation
all return BUSY before filesystem/assignment side effects. No automatic pad-stop
command is issued to make progress.

A worker must call manager_publish_pads at M_RESET before calling manager_step
again. BUSY retains that boundary for a later attempt. OK or SKIPPED permits
continued reset/preparation. Other errors require an explicit retry/skip/stop
policy; no production task, wakeup or error UI is registered by this stage.
A caller that continues manager_step on BUSY would miss that publication window.
This ordering is supplied by the test harness, not enforced by a new manager
state or a real device scheduler. Ordinary recording/card exclusion also remains
an external requirement even while the optional manager is paused.

The existing publisher attempts rollback of every attempted assignment plus
settings after an assignment or save failure. Tests verify late loader failure
and short/error settings writes restore prior assignments/history. An explicit
retry can publish the retained result. Uncertain file close or failed rollback
latches a publisher fault and prevents automatic reuse. Cancellation checkpoints
preserve the result for a later explicit attempt. Partial/orphan copied files and
catalogue entries may remain; nothing deletes original recordings.

Settings are still updated in place. This is not power-loss atomicity, a durable
history journal, or reboot reconstruction. Copying each retained song into its
pad-specific directory can require four full-song copies per pass; available
space, directory growth and latency remain practical issues. This stage does not
claim the zero-copy/direct-pad solution is finished.

How this simulation works
1. ManagerRig runs the compiled capture/manager code with generated audio and
   bytearray files until the real compiled manager reaches M_RESET.
2. The harness transfers that manager RAM, ELF globals and completed file bytes
   into a separate StockRig CPU. It does not invent a completed result or turn a
   processed MASTER into an extra capture.
3. That CPU executes the compiled visitor and publisher, original stock pad
   validator/loader control flow, catalogue routines and filesystem wrappers.
   The strict compiled stock adapter verifies assignments and settings.
4. SD driver effects, parser outputs, audio-engine work and exclusion/fence
   confirmation remain modeled. No actual sound is rendered by this test.

The two-CPU transfer avoids conflating the existing capture public-filesystem
fixture with the stock pad fixture's lower-level driver handles. It also limits
what is proved: there is no continuously shared RTOS, queue/renderer execution,
hardware timing, real flash/SD throughput, or concurrent card-removal test.
A separate peer-CPU probe confirms that manager reset and result reads return
BUSY while the publisher holds the manager latch during IO. This is controlled
interleaving, not exhaustive preemption coverage.

Verification
New groups cover six sequential publications, duplicate idempotence, default
unbound fence and playback/readers deferral, manager reentry, late loader failure
and retry, settings failure and retry, uncertain-close fault, source corruption,
cooperative cancellation, invalid manager phases, and delayed latest-four history.

Reproduce from repository root with the existing analysis environment:
  /tmp/l6-re-tools/bin/python tools/build_extra_capture.py
  /tmp/l6-re-tools/bin/python tools/build_overdub_prototype.py
  /tmp/l6-re-tools/bin/python tools/verify_pad_publisher.py
Both builds are separate emulator ELFs, not flashable L6 images.

Next concrete investigation
Recover and bind the real pad-renderer fence/rearm boundary, using the already
located AudioProcess whole-callback path as a candidate. Establish that every
reader of the old sample/buffers has finished, future accesses are excluded, and
outstanding file work is accounted for before assignment unloads a pad. The
capture callback fence currently tested with a synthetic DSP body does not prove
that sampler contract. Then enforce publication/rearm ordering in the worker.
Physical memory placement, update packaging and recovery remain separate gates
before any hardware firmware experiment.
