L6 PLAYBACK SHUTDOWN AND EXCLUSIVE HANDOFF: OFFLINE PROTOTYPE
4 October 2026

Result
Connected the compiled control drain and audio completion protocol to the
playback session and ownership ledger. A permanent session hold now prevents
new pad starts/retriggers and refill scans throughout shutdown, the interval
between session retirement and exclusive ownership, and the publication window.
Existing workers continue and must complete before the session can retire.

19 new test groups pass; 264 relevant groups across 16 suites pass against the
rebuilt prototype. See playback_shutdown_verification.json and
playback_shutdown_regression.json for inventory, limitations and image hashes.
The stock firmware, device and SD card have not been changed.

Files and storage
prototype/overdub/playback_shutdown.h and playback_shutdown.c
prototype/overdub/playback_session.h and playback_session.c
  Session gains a persistent held word: 32 bytes instead of 28.
  Ordinary session behavior is preserved when held is zero.
tools/verify_playback_shutdown.py
  Shutdown state is 40 bytes plus an 8-byte port table. Emulator state bindings
  at 21003c00 and nearby addresses are fixtures, not proposed device placement.

Protocol
1. Close control execution admission. Acquire a persistent playback hold after
   any currently running session operation releases its operation latch.
2. Join the already-admitted control command while audio continues. Do not stop
   the audio task: a control handler can need it to complete a deferred copy.
3. Stop every playing session pad through the original stop routine. Its fade
   progress is modeled in these tests. The four-pad scope matches the existing
   publisher, which can replace all four pad assignments; it does not preserve
   playback of an unrelated pad during this all-pad publication cycle.
4. Disable new stream production by an explicit emulator adapter clearing each
   stock stream-enabled byte. Never clear pending flags to manufacture idle.
   All scans must enter through the held session, so none can begin concurrently.
5. Request a fresh callback completion epoch after those changes. Execute a
   subsequent complete original callback before accepting its acknowledgement.
6. Require all active, enabled and pending indicators to be quiet. Session
   retirement separately joins the ownership ledger's scan/read descendants.
   Even a cleared pending flag cannot override an outstanding child ticket.
7. Acquire exclusive publication ownership from the ledger. The persistent
   session hold covers the otherwise vulnerable interval after session
   retirement if unrelated ledger roots still prevent exclusive acquisition.
8. Return OK with the exclusive ticket still held. Starts and scans remain
   blocked; control jobs remain parked. The future publisher must inherit this
   ticket rather than acquire a second independent promotion owner.
9. On explicit successful finish, join publication children, release exclusive
   ownership, reopen control admission, then release the playback hold. A new
   start acquires a fresh session owner and validates the previous fence before
   the original restart re-enables playback/streaming. Reopen/unhold contention
   retains progress for retry. A start arriving immediately after hold release
   is valid even before finish clears its private cycle bookkeeping.

An initially idle session still needs the hold, stream disable, fresh audio
completion and quiet checks. Ordinary od_session_quiesce would otherwise return
immediately with no owner; the combined coordinator covers that case explicitly.
Missing audio waits. Changed callback identity, stale contradictory protocol
state, external ownership faults or uncertain publication latch failure. An
uncertain publication keeps exclusive ownership instead of releasing it on a
timeout. There is no public recovery/reset operation for a live failed cycle.

Evidence
The new suite exercises original playback start/stop and stream scan/worker
paths, with the compiled session, shutdown, control and ownership code. A separate
audio emulator executes all original callback instructions on the audited paths.
State transfer and scheduling points are explicit; this is not a complete RTOS.

A queued stock worker can finish after new stream production has been disabled;
its unfinished ticket blocks publication. An uncertain undelivered read remains
owned even if flags are idle. Conversely, an unattributed pending flag also
blocks release. Other ledger roots can finish while the persistent hold prevents
new playback in the retirement-to-publication gap.

During exclusive ownership, sample-buffer pages are marked inaccessible in the
audio emulator. All four recovered callbacks run twice without reading the
stopped sample buffers, while start and scan requests remain blocked. This is
stronger than a past-completion acknowledgement alone. It covers the tested
inactive paths, not every possible hidden/indirect reader.

The stock effects handler is also paused inside its original lock wait. Shutdown
holds new playback admission but leaves existing playback active until that
handler returns. Only then does it stop playback and request audio completion.
Two complete cycles verify new closure/owner epochs and explicit rearm.

Scope and remaining integration
This is a bound emulator adapter, not installed firmware. The default standalone
playback fence/rearm adapters still deliberately return BUSY. The new suite
explicitly binds its session to the combined implementation; it does not change
production settings or pretend an unknown device fence is available.

One manager exclusively owns hold/quiesce/unhold and control close/request/reopen
for each cycle. Every playback start, scan and relevant control change must pass
through those coordinators. Direct original callers outside those boundaries
remain unbound. Raw low-level APIs are not a security boundary against a caller
that violates the ownership contract. The stream disable adapter is new compiled
logic at recovered state fields, not a newly discovered stock stop-all API.

The ownership ledger excludes only attributed work. A generic card-root fixture
proves that such work delays the handoff; real USB/card and ordinary-recorder
entry/completion paths have not yet been attached. The capture manager's own
finalization and the pad publisher are not invoked by this suite. Successful
shutdown therefore does not yet authorize physical card writes or enable the
automatic on-device workflow.

Next: connect actual card/ordinary-recorder admission and completion evidence,
then hand this retained exclusive ticket to the completed-capture publisher.
Do not let the publisher acquire another promotion gate while this one is held.
Verify file-operation children and uncertain write/close failures through finish.
Actual UI/task hooks, register preservation, all-caller coverage, safe code/RAM
placement, interrupt/cache/DMA behavior, storage timing, recovery and update
packaging remain separate requirements before a device trial.

Reproduce
  /tmp/l6-re-tools/bin/python tools/build_overdub_prototype.py
  /tmp/l6-re-tools/bin/python tools/verify_playback_shutdown.py
