L6 v1.10 — compiled compact reload transport and deferred cleanup
4 October 2026

Result
The prototype now carries reload identity in the existing 32-byte assignment
message and 20-byte UI event. The original assignment worker dispatches a compiled
callback; the original Main receive loop dispatches the tagged event to a compiled
UI adapter. Both execute the original reload bodies, including settings save.
All three audited cleanup operations preserve the queue while any reload owner
exists. No queue resize or firmware-image write was made.

This is still offline integration. Entry interception is supplied by the emulator,
not installed branch patches. Native queue clearing's surrounding mode changes,
full-queue recovery, producer/file task attribution and other storage lifetimes
remain unfinished. This change does not establish a deployable firmware image.

New files
prototype/overdub/reload_compact.h, reload_compact.c, reload_compact_hooks.S
 tools/verify_reload_compact.py
 analysis/reload_compact_verification.json
 analysis/reload_compact_regression.json
Shared changes: reload_ownership.c/.h adds cleanup exclusion; coordinator size is
now 396 bytes (previous fields retain their offsets). Build includes the compact
module and assembly forwarders. The emulator fixture now permits a Cortex-M7
factory so the compiled IPSR context check can execute instead of being stubbed.

Compact wire formats and native control flow
Worker: [compiled rc_worker address, RL_MAGIC, owner, worker-child,
         RL_WORKER, 0, 0, 0].
The original 0x80036290 worker receives 32 bytes and passes the following 28 bytes
to the callback. rc_worker reconstructs a private full envelope and zero payload
for the known original 0x80049da0 callback, which ignores its argument payload.
The compact format is only for this known reload callback, not arbitrary pointer-
bearing stock work. Producer ownership is still reserved before original producer
0x80008d68 runs, using rt_produce/rt_queue and the compiled compact send port.

UI: [1,4,26,owner,UI-child].
The original event sender 0x8006e4b8, receiver 0x80020690 and Main-loop branch
0x8002c43e run. The adapter at handler 0x8002d568 reconstructs [1,4,26,0,0]
before invoking the original UI body, then completes the attributed branch after
return. Other UI events and the original zero-payload reload event are forwarded;
activation therefore requires old unowned reload traffic to be drained/admitted
under a separately verified cutover policy. It is not silently retroactive.

Register/stack forwarders replay the verified v1.10 entry prologues and resume at:
 stock send: 0x800483fa; event sender: 0x8006e4bc;
 UI body: 0x8002d56a; reducer: 0x8001fd12;
 whole clear: 0x8002043a; targeted delete: 0x8002054c.
The filter forwarder also preserves its original zero-count early return.
Firmware hash checking in the harness pins these addresses and instructions.
No installed jump encoding, cache maintenance or physical code placement exists.

Task identity and pending work
RcBinding is a permanent 44-byte context. It is installed once with distinct,
nonzero worker/UI task identities, distinct task contexts and queue handles.
Bindings cannot be replaced; task-handle reuse and teardown are unsupported.
Compiled lookup reads IPSR and calls original current-task getter 0x800770e8.
Null, wrong or unknown task identities fault the ledger before executing a body.
The harness changes the actual current-task RAM word between scheduled fixture
contexts. The IPSR guard executes in thread mode; this is not an interrupt test.

Both blocking receive paths must enter rc_next before fetching another message.
If a task retained a claim/error/completion retry, rc_next retries it first. A
still-busy operation yields through an explicitly bound scheduler port and returns
receive failure without touching the next queued message. Completed or stale
work can then be followed by another message. Returning busy from a callback alone
would have been insufficient because the original dispatcher ignores that result.
Tests cover both worker and Main retention, duplicate delivery, late old messages,
producer reuse, and two jobs with reversed UI order. The fixture yield is not a
measured RTOS scheduler or hardware liveness guarantee.

Cleanup policy: defer the entire cleanup while a reload is live
rl_cleanup_begin is serialized with rl_begin under the short coordinator latch.
It succeeds only if no reload jobs exist, then sets a separate cleanup flag.
The flag blocks new reload admission until rl_cleanup_end after the whole original
cleanup body returns. No metadata latch is held through stock/RTOS calls.
If a job already exists, cleanup is deferred even if its worker has not yet
published a UI event. There is no unsafe check-empty-then-clear admission gap.
Faulted or unverified reloads continue to defer cleanup.

rc_filter returns its original input count and leaves the buffer untouched when
cleanup cannot begin. This conservatively preserves all events, including owned
continuations. Without a live reload it executes the original reducer unchanged.
rc_clear and rc_delete return OWN_BUSY without running the original body when
blocked; after admission they execute original whole clear/targeted removal and
return OWN_OK. These are NEW status contracts, distinct from the original helper's
incidental semaphore return. Deferred bits 1/2/4 in RcBinding are sticky diagnostics,
not a queue of retry requests. A failed cleanup-end transition faults closed.

The original Main mode-transition caller currently ignores the old clear return.
Native integration must make that caller honor deferral, or otherwise preserve its
transition semantics explicitly. Merely skipping its queue clear does not defer
its other actions. This is the next required control-flow binding, not a completed
mode-transition implementation. A Main task must not block waiting for itself to
consume a pending UI continuation.

Full UI queue handling
The common UI queue-send boundary uses kernel send 0x800763d8 with timeout zero
and preserves the original zero/-1 result mapping and message-counter update.
Other queue sends retain their original wrapper. This prevents a full UI queue
from blocking forever after cleanup has conservatively retained all messages.
The test fills the actual modeled capacity of 4096 events, executes the original
sender's drain/filter/requeue path, retains all existing events, and returns a
failure for the new event. Its reload remains owned and cannot permit publication.
The earlier ownership protocol treats the failure as uncertain; this stage does
not implement automatic resubmission, explicit cancellation or owner recovery.
Nonblocking UI send changes saturation behavior for all UI queue callers; their
error handling must be audited before a native patch uses this boundary.

Verification and limits
Fourteen new groups exercise normal original-worker/Main execution, all cleanup
paths before and after retirement, cleanup/admission exclusion, checked settings
short writes, retained claim/completion retries in both native receive loops,
task rejection, binding lifetime, stale messages, reversed jobs, full capacity,
and original cleanup entry interception. The original clear body is checked to
hold cleanup admission while the short metadata latch remains unlocked.
All 371 groups across 24 relevant suites pass. The regression report records
exact suite counts and current ELF hashes.

Kernel queue copies/wakeups, mutex effects, scheduler yield, task creation/switching,
filesystem driver, RIFF parser and audio prefetch remain fixtures. Producer scope
and file-boundary attribution still use the preceding harness binding; only the
compact consumers resolve their task from the original getter here. USB/card and
ordinary-recorder roots, public-wrapper I/O failures and async descendants retain
their earlier integration gaps. Settings readback and physical audio correctness
are not newly established by the compact transport.

Next bounded work
Bind deferred whole-clear handling to its surrounding Main transition, with a
nonblocking continuation that allows Main to finish queued owned work before
resuming the transition. Audit the full-queue failure/retry policy alongside it;
never clear an owner simply because its message could not be delivered.

No mixer communication, SD writes, flashing, device opening or firmware-image
modification occurred. Stock L6.BIN SHA256 remains:
64f1f36b8383176b5d841911fbf3c16205139a313ee88be906f313b1a98a33fb
