L6 STORAGE READINESS AUDIT AND INHERITED PUBLICATION OWNERSHIP
4 October 2026

Result
The completed-extra-capture publisher now has an emulator binding which borrows
shutdown's existing exclusive owner. It no longer needs an independent modeled
success flag or a second exclusive acquisition in this integration test. An owned
child spans publication, including copying, assignment, persistence and rollback.
Shutdown finish cannot release the parent while that child remains outstanding.

This is not full device storage exclusion. A new original-instruction audit
confirms that convenient recorder/card return values are insufficient. Actual
recording, USB/card session and deferred reload entry/completion ownership is
still unbound. The tests supply explicit reservations for those external lifetimes;
they do not infer them from idle flags and do not claim installed firmware hooks.

Seven new storage-readiness groups and eight new guarded-publisher groups pass.
See storage_readiness_verification.json, guarded_publisher_verification.json and
guarded_publisher_regression.json for current coverage, limitations and hashes.
No device/card access or stock firmware changes occurred.

1. Card setup can return zero without local readiness
Execute original 80009a40(2), original status getters 8000ac80 and 8000ac70,
and original reload producer 80008d68. The filesystem status source 8005ec00,
mount routine, directory preparation, RTOS and queue effects are fixtures.

8000ac80 returns 1 minus status bit 0; 8000ac70 returns status bit 3.
At 80009a60 the mount call's result is not tested. After catalogue reset, the
volume getter is checked. If status bit 0 is set, the branch at 80009a6e reaches
80009b14 and returns ZERO without directory work or any pad-reload submission.
Tests reproduce this with both zero and injected error returns from mount.
Consequently a zero result from 80009a40 is not positive readiness evidence.

With status bit 3 set, or injected directory-preparation failure, the setup
routine returns -1 without reload. With fixture status zero and setup success,
its call at 80009ac0 runs the original deferred reload producer:
  80008d8c sets pending word 807348cc to 1;
  80008da6 places callback 80049da1 into a 32-byte message;
  80008dbe sends it to the queue whose handle is at 801f8f3c;
  mutex-release code overwrites the send result before producer return.
Both injected send success and failure lead to zero from the outer setup routine,
with pending still 1. The original callback is 80049da0; it is not executed in
this new audit, and its completion/success evidence remains a next target.
A submitted reload is not a completed reload, and failed send is ambiguous.

These are stronger negative controls for the already documented USB return path:
its mode flag can clear even after failed remount. Neither flag nor return code
can release storage-session ownership or authorize publication.

2. Ordinary recorder stop erases convenient state after ignored errors
The audit executes original backend 8000b698, its real drain predicates
80037dc0/80037d68/80037df0, and real state-reset routine 800380d0. The external
finalizer/close/postprocess bodies and handle/length queries remain fixtures.

Scheduled fixture progress separately clears file, producer and flush activity.
The original backend waits for those predicates before entering its twelve
per-stream finalization/close sequences. This verifies control-flow ordering,
not arbitrary asynchronous pointer lifetime or SD durability.

For master stream index 10:
  8000b8e2 calls finalizer 8000ea08;
  8000b8e8 calls close 8005c1f8.
Neither returned error is checked. Injecting either or both still closes later
streams, executes real 800380d0 (clearing enabled mask 8077ca38), calls postprocess
800032b0, and clears recorder state byte 801f8c50 at 8000b9aa.
An idle byte or zero enabled mask therefore cannot distinguish successful close
from uncertain close. A disabled backend can also return without any finalizers
or closes; synthetic preexisting stream state then remains untouched.

A future lifetime adapter must retain errors/status evidence before these values
are overwritten, cover every open/segment and asynchronous descendant, and join
postprocessing. Reserving only around the final backend call is too late to cover
recording itself or already queued start/stop work. This stage does not claim
that such a complete recorder lifetime adapter has been installed.

3. Publisher inherits the retained exclusive owner
playback_shutdown.c adds trusted publication begin/end APIs. Begin runs under
the shutdown latch, requires its HELD phase, a nonfaulted ledger, a matching audio
acknowledgement, persistent playback hold and quiet state. It reserves/accepts/
claims an OWN_CARD child under the existing promotion ticket. It does not call
od_own_promote again or drop the parent between ownership domains.

publication_lease.c supplies explicit emulator Port.enter/leave functions using
a permanent 12-byte context at 21003e00: shutdown pointer, publisher State pointer,
and child ticket. This address is not a device RAM allocation. The child exists
through all synchronous publisher file calls and rollback. On ordinary return,
complete plus producer_done retires the child; the parent remains exclusive for
the manager to finish explicitly. On uncertain close, ownership or release
failure, the child remains attributed and the gate/publisher fault latches.

The shared publisher now also checks State.fault after Port.enter failure and
after its void Port.leave callback. This prevents a release failure from being
reported as a clean success/cancellation simply because leave has no return value.
Both prototype ELFs were rebuilt because both contain the shared publisher body.

4. Integration evidence and exact limits
The capture CPU produces a verified additional pre-master WAV and reaches the
manager's RESET boundary. A shutdown CPU executes the compiled shutdown and real
audio acknowledgement. Explicit state transfer then supplies that same closed
state and retained ticket to the stock-pad CPU, which executes the compiled
manager visitor/publisher, new lease, ledger and stock pad assignment control flow.

Every observed file event has the same parent exclusive ticket and its one
running publication child. Attempting shutdown finish during a checkpoint returns
BUSY; starts/scans remain blocked. A successful publish copies the exact additional
WAV bytes, retains its source, and leaves the ordinary MASTER unchanged. Explicit
finish releases the parent and playback hold afterwards.

Missing audio acknowledgement prevents publication before file I/O. A fixture
root representing card/recorder activity also blocks the handoff. A definite
not-sent fixture operation can be cancelled and then permits publication; an
uncertain operation remains owned despite its producer returning. These roots
are intentionally supplied by the harness, not silently inferred from weak stock
flags or represented as recovered on-device recorder/USB hooks.

Recoverable short writes release the publisher child but retain the parent for
an explicit retry. Uncertain close retains the child and faults shutdown. A
release-lock failure propagates to the publisher's returned FAULT. Repeating an
already published manager snapshot creates no new file I/O and does not drop
parent ownership.

Existing sample-loader/prefetch and file-driver effects remain modeled in this
publisher fixture. Real asynchronous work spawned by assignment must inherit
this owner and remain tracked after the synchronous publisher returns. The new
child alone is not proof of all prefetch completion. Physical cache/DMA behavior,
RTOS scheduling, SD timing/durability and power-loss atomicity remain unverified.

Next verified boundary to pursue
Trace deferred reload callback 80049da0 through its completion and per-pad loader
results, then attach non-reused ownership before the storage-mode request and
its first release side effects. Preserve it across USB host access, return,
volume readiness and every reload descendant. For ordinary recording, attach at
the admitted whole request before enqueue, retain through all file and control
work, and collect finalizer/close evidence rather than read the eventual idle bit.
Do not enable automatic on-device publication until these real entry points and
asynchronous descendants are covered. Default standalone unbound fence adapters
remain BUSY; no firmware image has been built for installation.

Reproduce
  /tmp/l6-re-tools/bin/python tools/build_overdub_prototype.py
  /tmp/l6-re-tools/bin/python tools/build_extra_capture.py
  /tmp/l6-re-tools/bin/python tools/verify_storage_readiness.py
  /tmp/l6-re-tools/bin/python tools/verify_guarded_publisher.py

Subsequent reload audit
pad_reload_findings.txt follows the full queued callback and its UI consumer.
The UI completion event triggers a second stop/unload/reload/save sequence, so
worker callback return is too early to release storage ownership. Late loader
and close failures can also escape both event status and final-state snapshots.
The new evidence refines the next required ticket lifetime; no storage shortcut
was enabled.
